Inspira Health Psychiatry Residency Handbook 1 Psychiatry Residency Handbook Inspira Health Psychiatry Residency Handbook 2 TABLE OF CONTENTS Welcome ……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………….. 3 Overview ………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………… 4 Mission Statement ………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………….. 5 Faculty …………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………….. 6 Overall Educational Goals …………………………………………………………………………………………………………… ……7 Required and Elective Rotations ………………………………………………………………………………………………………. 8 PGY Rotation Objectives …………………………………………………………………………………………………………………… 9 Program Policies ………………………………………………………………………………………………………………… ……………. 37 Communication Policy ………………………………………………… …………………………………………………………………… 49 Residency Program Details ………………………………………………………………………………………………………………. 52 Time off Requests ……………………………………………………………………………………………………………….. 55 Teaching Aids & Library Resources ……………………. …………………………………………………………………………….. 59 Inspira Health Psychiatry Residency Handbook 3 Welcome! Congratulations on starting your Psychiatry Residency with us at Inspira Health! All your hard work leading to this point has paid off and the next phase of your journey is now just beginning. These next few years will be your “formative years” in your pro fessional career, and we are ecstatic to beapart of it. This handbook will serve asaguide on many different topics including: overarching goals, rotation specifics, program logistics, professionalism, amongst others. Please take your time to review ourpolicies and guidelines. You will be best prepared to start residency when you understand what the expectations are as a trainee and are for faculty. During the course of the year, supplemental information may also be given to you. Please be aware thatany policy in this manual is subject to change. For further clarification of clinical information and/or service requirements, please speak with your Program Director, the director of the individual service, or the chief/director of the clinical service site in which you are involved. Once again welcome to our family and we can’t wait to get started. Inspira Health Psychiatry Residency Handbook 4 OVERVIEW —PSYCHIATRY RESIDENCY PROGRAM Our psychiatry residency program is accredited by the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME). The residency program in General Psychiatry offers a balanced training approach that provides ample exposure to psychotherapy and psychopharmacology in addition to training in all modalities that will be needed in the practice of Psychiatry. The program’s philosophical bases are a commitment to the holistic concepts of osteopathic medicine and the integration of the biopsychosocial model in understanding both pathology and treatment approaches. During the first two years of training, the resident experiences, clinically and academically, the biological, psychological, and social areas of mental health. Once this foundation is built, other treatment modalities such as family therapy, behavior therapy, cognitive therapy, psychodynamicallyoriented psychotherapy, and group therapy are introduced and complement the core training philosophy. The residency offers rich and diverse clinical experiences, close supervision,astrong didactic program, andacommitment to research as essential traini ng components. Each resident, with the assistance ofafaculty mentor, is encouraged to developaresearch project for completion during the fourth year. Special emphasis is placed on assisting the resident in developing this investigation throughout the last three years of training. Upon completion of the training program, the graduate is prepared to sit for the certification examination in Psychiatry given by the American Osteopathic Board of Psychiatry and Neurology and the American Board of Psychiatry and Neurology (ABPN). Program graduates work in private practice, in community settings, and in academia. Inspira Health Psychiatry Residency Handbook 5 MISSION STATEMENT & PROGRAM AIMS Mission Statement: The Psychiatry Residency at Inspira Health will be committed to providing the highest quality educational experience with proper mentoring of all residents while fostering intellectual curiosity and diverse learning methods. It is our purpose to 1. Train well -rounded physicians who are equipped to handle the healthcare demands of the twenty first century 2. Explore new methods of training quality physicians 3. Learn from new research onafoundation of experience 4. Encourage good citizenship in the healthcare community 5. Advocate for the physical and mental well -being of our patients and our community regardless of gender, ethnicity, or socioeconomic status. Program Aims: The goals of the Inspira Psychiatry Residency Program are that the graduates will attain the professional, cognitive, and technical skills necessary to provide their patients with kind and compassionate care. The training program is designed to provide broad -based clinical training, with emphasis on both inpatient and outpatient care. Residents are assisted in mastering the six core competencies as wellas attaining or exceeding the Milestone targets as set forth by the ACGME for all trainees as part of the process for developing into outstanding, well -rounded physicians who can manageabroad range of psychiatric conditions. Other goals and objectives of the program include developing proficiency in obtaining clinical data through patient interviews, physical examinations, interpretation of imaging and laboratory data and utilizing such data appropriately. The program will support trainees as they learn how to deliver the highest quality and safest patient care using evidence -based medicine, quality improvement, patient safety tools andateam -based approach. The program will also promoteaculture of mutual learning, respect and education and acknowledgediverse views that will foster healthy discussions among, residents, clinicians, colleagues, patients, and families. This includes promoting and developing excellence in communication skills. We will nurture residents to become lifelong learners and they will upholdacommitment to adhere to ethical principles and carry out professional responsibilities. Promoting scholarly activity and opportunities for research with mentoring and faculty supervision will enhance the learning process. RESIDENCY PROGRAM FACULTY Inspira Health Psychiatry Residency Handbook 6 Program Faculty The residency program in General Psychiatry draws upon the clinical and educational resources from the Psychiatry Department to train residents in the diagnosis, treatment, and prevention of psychiatric disorders and the common medical and neurological disorders related to Psychiatry. The teaching staff of the residency program consists of both paid and volunteer faculty who participate in the educational program on both full -time and part -time bases. Their diver sity of training and practice experience, involvement in scholarly activity, and commitment to educational excellence provideawell -rounded educational experience for psychiatry residents. FACULTY LISTING Stephen Scheinthal, DO Chair, Department of Psychiatry Zubair Khan, DO Program Director Rachel Shmuts, DO Vice Chair of Education Andrew Lopez, MD Adult Inpatient Unit Stephen Mateka, DO Pediatric Inpatient Unit (CAMHU) James Rogers, DO Consult Liaison Psychiatry Martin Forsberg, DO Geriatric Psychiatry (LIFE) Wanshu Di, MD Neurology Narsimha R. Pinninti, MD Outpatient Psychiatry Allen Masry, MD Inpatient Psychiatry Robert Steer, EdD Director of Psychometrics Lydia Vender, DO Child & Adolescent Psychiatry Inspira Health Psychiatry Residency Handbook 7 OVERALL EDUCATIONAL GOALS Inspira Health Network Psychiatry Residency Program aims to provide an outstanding education in psychiatry, adhering to the Common and Psychiatry -specific requirements of the Accreditation Councilfor Graduate Medical Education (ACGME). Additional goals are to prepare graduates for the Psychiatry examination of the American Board of Psychiatry and Neurology ( ABPN ) and American Osteopathic Board of Neurology and Psychiatry (AOBNP) and to equip them forawide variety of careers within P sychiatry. Overall goals of the program are delineated in the following categories: Patient Care 1. To provide high quality clinical experiences, rotations, and supervision in primary care, neurology, inpatient psychiatry, emergency psychiatry, consultation -liaison psychiatry, addiction psychiatry, geriatric psychiatry, child and adolescent psychiatry, and outpatient psychiatry, and exposure to forensic psychiatry, community psychiatry, and electroconvulsive treatment, as required by the ACGME. 2. To provide excellent training in diagnosis, differential diagnosis, pathophysiology, theoretical models, and treatments in psychiatry, including training in psychotherapies, as specified by the ACGME. 3. To provide exposure to and experience with the diagnosis and treatment of patients withawide variety of psychiatric conditions and an appropriate mix of ages, genders, socioeconomic statuses, and ethnicities. 4. To provide supervision that is appropriate to the resident's knowledge and skills, and to provide increasing autonomy and responsibility as the resident progresses through the program. 5. To provideavariety of elective rotations, including opportunities to pursue research and academic leadership during residency. Medical Knowledge 1. To provide regular, high -quality didactics coveringarange of topics, as required by the ACGME, and organized inadevelopmentally appropriate sequence across the years of training. 2. To provide other learning opportunities, such as regular conferences, Grand Rounds, case conferenc es, journal clubs, evidence -based psychiatry conferences, and psychotherapy seminars to enhance residents’ acquisition of existing knowledge and skills in lifelong learning. Practice -Based Learning and Improvement 1. To provide regular supervision, formative feedback, and evaluations, so that residents can incorporate feedback into their practice and education. 2. To provide instruction and experience in use of information technology with patient care and applying evidence from the literatu re to clinical experiences after locating and apprising evidence -based recommendations. 3. To provide instruction and experience in educating patients, families, other health care providers, Inspira Health Psychiatry Residency Handbook 8 medical students, and junior residents. 4. To provide case conference s, case reviews, self -assessments and goal -settings, quality improvement activities, and other opportunities for residents to examine and improve their practice. Interpersonal and Communication Skills 1. To provide instruction and experience in communication with patients, families, other physicians and health care providers, health care agencies, and the public, acrossawide range of socioeconomic and cultural backgrounds. 2. To teach skills in consultation to other physicians and health care providers. 3. To prov ide instruction and experience in interviewing, empathic listening, and therapeutic interventions. 4. To teach skills in written communication, including maintaining timely, legible, and clinically appropriate medical records. 5. To teach skills in working in andleading multidisciplinary teams. Professionalism 1. To foster professionalism in both faculty and residents and provideasupportive, respectful, and collegial learning environment. 2. To help residents developaprofessional identity asapsychiatrist, including demonstrating compassion, integrity, and respect for others; responsiveness to patient needs that supersedes self - interest; respect for patient privacy and autonomy; accountability to patients, society and the profession; and sensit ivity and responsiveness toadiverse patient population, including but not limited to diversity in gender, age, culture, race, religion, disability, and sexual orientation. 3. To educate residents on ethical and professional issues relevant to psychiatry and to promote thoughtful discussion of these topics. Systems -Based Practice 1. To provide instruction and experience in working in different health care delivery systems. 2. To teach residents about specific issues in systems -based practice relevant to psychiatry, such as involuntary commitment, decisional capacity, other legal and forensic issues in psychiatry, and resources in the system available for treatment and support of patients. 3. To fosteraspirit of patient advocacy and skills in coordination of care. 4. To teach residents to incorporate considerations of cost effectiveness and risk benefit analysis into each patient encounter. 5. To provide opportunities to identify and work to solve systems errors. General 1. To fosteracollaborative, collegial, supportive, and respectful learning environment. 2. To provide high quality faculty supervision and teaching. Inspira Health Psychiatry Residency Handbook 9 3. To ensure adequate resources, program leadership, and staffing to allow for high quality education for residents. 4. To providearoutine, regular, and fair evaluation process for residents and faculty. 5. To provide opportunities for residents and faculty to give feedback about the program and each other, and to participate in program -improvement projects. 6. To provideafair disciplinary, remediation, and grievan ce process, as necessary. Inspira Health Psychiatry Residency Handbook 10 REQUIRED ROTATIONS PGY 1 • Adult Inpatient • Internal Medicine • Neurology • Consults PGY 2 • Adult Inpatient • CAMHU • Consults • Geriatric Psychiatry PGY 3 • Adult Inpatient • ER/Crisis • IBCU • Forensic Psychiatry • Consults • Addiction Psychiatry • Geriatric Psychiatry PGY 4 • Ambulatory ELECTIVE ROTATIONS OPTIONS • Child Abuse Rotation (CARES) • Developmental Disabilities (RISN) • Community Psychiatry Rotation • Forensic Psychiatry Rotation • OMT Rotation • Academic Psychiatry Rotation • Palliative Care Vineland • Family Medicine Rotation Inspira Health Psychiatry Residency Handbook 11 Adult Inpatient Unit PGY 1 Goal: The goal of the psychiatry inpatient unit rotation is to provide supervised clinical experience and instruction in the assessment, diagnosis, and treatment of psychiatric inpatients. Objectives: Residents completing the psychiatry inpatient unit rotation are expected to achieve proficiency in the following arenas and tasks: 1. Patient Care • Perform comprehensive psychiatric diagnostic interviews, includingaformal mental status examination. • Conduct comprehensive medical evaluations of psychiatric patients and be capable of integrating medical knowledge with clinical data. • Judiciously use diagnostic and therapeuticprocedures. • Make appropriate DSM ---5 diagnoses and learn how to develop appropriate differential diagnoses. • Formulate and implement treatment plans, taking into account psychiatric and medical co --- morbidities. Plans should begin to integrate various tre atment modalities. • Manage acute behavioral disturbances inasafe and effective manner. • Demonstrate the ability to educate patients and families about psychiatric illnesses, treatment plans, medications, and disposition planning. • Provide continuous care forpatients, including planning appropriate aftercare. 2. Medical Knowledge • Display appropriate knowledge of basic and clinical sciences relevant to Psychiatry. • Distinguish among the criteria for most major DSM ---5 disorders. • Learn how to integrate clinicalfindings, medical knowledge, evidence -based data, and good judgment. • Complete reading in required areas and demonstrate knowledge based on readings. • Describe the basic principles and applications of the major classes of psychotropic medications. Haveab asic understanding of their limitations, side effects, and important possible drug interactions. 3. Practice -Based Learning and Improvement • Have the ability to utilizeavariety of educational resources, including information technology, in self---directedlearning. Seek out clinical knowledge without prompting. • Facilitate the teaching of medical students and other health care professionals. • Begin to demonstrate autonomy in medical decision -making and team leadership. 4. Interpersonal and Communication Sk ills • Demonstrate interviewing skills with facility in being able to establish rapport, clarify the purpose of the interview, attend to cues, make transitions smoothly, demonstrate empathy, and elicit important information from patients and collateral sourc es of information. • Can developatherapeutic alliance with patients and maintain appropriate professional boundaries. Inspira Health Psychiatry Residency Handbook 12 • Understand the role of other mental health professionals on the inpatient unit and be capable of working collaboratively as demonstratedby ability to leadamultidisciplinary treatment team. • Communicate effectively with patients’ other care providers (consultants, specialists, inpatient, outpatient). • Learn how to give formal oral and written case presentations, includingabiopsychosocial formulation. 5. Professionalism • Be reliable and punctual. • Respect patient confidentiality. • Complete medical records inatimely, thorough, and legible manner. • Demonstrate integrity, initiative, and accept responsibility for their own actio ns. • Demonstrate understanding of patients and their illnesses inasociocultural context, including displaying sensitivity to patients’ cultures, ethnicities, ages, genders, socioeconomic statuses, sexual minority statuses, and/or disabilities. 6. Systems - Based Practice • Demonstrate knowledge of practice and delivery systems. • Improve system of care by integration of their practice within the larger system. • Describe the basic legal issues involved in inpatient psychiatry, including indications for involunta ry commitment, informed consent, duty to warn, and medicolegal aspects of record keeping. • Evaluate risks, benefits, limitations, and costs of myriad available resources. Inspira Health Psychiatry Residency Handbook 13 Internal Medicine Rotation PGY 1 Goal : Upon completion of the Internal Medicine rotations, the resident will gain exposure toabroad range of acute medical problems in adults while developing the ability to evaluate and manage patients admitted with undifferentiated illness. The resident will also engage in problem solvingand be comfortable with the management of common acute and chronic diseases often encounter on the Internal Medicine hospital service. Objectives: Residents completing internal medicine rotations are expected to attain proficiency in the following arenas and accomplish the following tasks: 1. Patient Care • Communicate effectively and demonstrate caring and respectful behaviors when interacting with patients and their families. • Gather essential and accurate information about their patients. • Make informed decisions about diagnostic and therapeutic interventions based on patient information and preferences, up -to-date scientific evidence, and clinical judgment. • Develop and carry out patient management plans. • Counsel and educate patients and their families. • Use information technology to support patient care decisions and patient education. • Perform competently all medical and invasive procedures essential for the practice of general internal medicine. 2. Medical Knowledge • Demonstrate an investigatory and analytic thinking approach to clinical situations. • Demonstrateasufficient level of understanding of the clinical, basic, and social sciences that underlie the practice of internal medicine. • Be able to demonstrate applicat ion of clinical, basic, and social sciences knowledge to patient care, patient education, and the education of other members of the health care team. • Areas of knowledge will include understanding the pathogenesis, pathophysiology, epidemiology, historical issues, relevant physical findings, test utilization, means of confirmingadiagnosis, treatment, monitoring, and prevention of the most common inpatient and outpatient clinical disorders cared for by internists. • Understand how various aspects of disease are affected by gender, age, ethnicity, culture, and disability. Inspira Health Psychiatry Residency Handbook 14 3. Practice -Based Learning and Improvement • Analyze practice experience and perform practice -based improvement activities usingasystematic methodology. • Learn how to self -evaluate cognitive, technical, attitudinal, and procedural aspects of care. • Locate, appraise, and assimilate evidence from scientific studies related to patients’ health problems. • Obtain and use information about their own population of patients and the larger population from which their patients are drawn. • Apply knowledge of study designs and statistical methods to the appraisal of clinical studies and other information on diagnostic and therapeutic effectiveness. • Use information technology to manage information and access on -line medical information to support their own education • Facilitate the learning of students and other health care professionals. 4. Interpersonal and Communication Skills • Demonstrate effective written, verbal, and non -verbal communication when participating in patient care, consulting and collaborating with colleagues and coworkers, teaching and presenting in the academic center, and most importantly, during information exchange and collaboration with patients and their families. • Create and sustain therapeutic and ethically sound relationships with patients. • Use effective listening skills and elicit and provide information using effective non -verbal, explanatory, questioning, and writing skills. • Work effectively with others asamember or leader ofahealth care team or other professional group. 5. Professionalism • Demonstrate respect, compassion, and integrity. • Demonstrate responsiveness to the needs of patients and society that supersedes self - interest; accountability to patients, society, and the profession; andacommitment to excellence and on - going professional development. • Demonstrateacommitment to ethic al principles pertaining to provision or withholding of clinical care, confidentiality of patient information, informed consent, and business practices. • Demonstrate sensitivity and responsiveness to patients’ cultures, ages, genders, and/or disabilities. 6. Systems -Based Practice • Understand how patient care and other professional practices affect other health care professionals, the health care organization, and the larger society. Understand how these elements of the system affect their own practice. • Know how various types of medical practice and delivery systems differ from one another, including methods of controlling health care costs and allocating resources. • Practice cost-effective health care and resource allocation that does not compromise quality of care. Inspira Health Psychiatry Residency Handbook 15 • Advocate for quality patient care and assist patients in dealing with system complexities. • Know how to partner with health care managers and health care providers to assess, coordinate, and improve health care. Know how these activities can affect system performance. Inspira Health Psychiatry Residency Handbook 16 Neurology PGY 1 Goal : The goal of the Neurology rotation is to provide an introduction to the care and evaluation of inpatients with neurological disorders. Objectives: Residents completing the Neurology rotation are expected to attain proficiency in the following arenas and with the following tasks: 1. Patient Care • Complete an accurate history and physical on assigned neurology patients. • Write ac curate and legible orders or correctly enter orders into the electronic medical record (EMR) on assigned neurology patients. • Establish proper diagnoses for assigned neurology patients. • Recommend treatment plans for assigned patient to the more senior resid ent or attending. 2. Medical Knowledge • Develop neurological exam skills under the guidance of the neurology attending. • Demonstrate an understanding of the basic and most current pathophysiology of common neurological disorders and apply this knowledge to the clinical care of patients. • Be able to explain and examine the interaction of neurological diseases with other organ systems and with other medical and mental illness. • Gain experience in the localization of findings on the neurological exam. 3. Practice -Based Learning and Improvement • To prioritize clinical responsibilities, provide timely service, and seek appropriate consultation and support. • Develop the ability to use information technology to improve the resident’s fund of knowledge and technical skills to provide better care to patients. • Attending teaching rounds, conferences, lectures, and meetings pertinent to neurology. 4. Interpersonal and Communication Skills • Communicate effectively with other health care professionals. • Communicate with patients and their families in easily understood and culturally sensitive language. • Work effectively as bothamember ofaprofessional group and asagroup leader. • Demonstrate the ability to serve asaconsultant to colleag ues and other health care professionals. • Maintain comprehensive, timely, and legible medical records. 5. Professionalism • Understand positive and negative communication behavior and leadership characteristics. • Demonstrate appropriate nonverbal behavior. • Have commitment and responsibility for carrying out professional responsibilities. • Adhere to ethical principles. • Develop sensitivity toadiverse patient population, with respect for colleagues and other health professionals as well. Inspira Health Psychiatry Residency Handbook 17 • Function wellasateam member. • Be punctual. 6. Systems -based Practice • Describe the responsibility of the individual physician to the patient, the practice, and the overall health care system. • Describe the concepts of cost containment and cost-effectiveness, and learn the relative cost to the patient and society of studies and treatments requested/ordered. • Describe methods for ensuring that the practitioner and the practice group use scarce resources inasound, thoughtful, and cost -effecti ve manner. • Develop necessary skills required for the independent practice of neurological care. • Understand the role of the physician’s order, appropriate history, and the electronic medical record as they pertain to inpatient neurological care. • Understand how to utilize available resources in the hospital and electronic media to improve patient care and outcomes. Inspira Health Psychiatry Residency Handbook 18 Consultation Liaison Psychiatry Rotation PGY I Goal: Upon completion of the Consultation Liaison (CL) rotation the resident will be able to function effectively in medical settings to deliver psychiatric consultation and care. Objectives: Residents completing the CL rotation are expected to be proficientin the following tasks in the following arenas: 1. Patient Care • Integrate medical knowledge with clinical data. • Demonstrate judicious use of diagnostic and therapeutic procedures. • Formulateamanagement plan for the appropriate level of care. • Generateadi fferential diagnosis. • Provide comprehensive therapeutic and care plans, including plans for follow up. • Develop interview skills and document accurate mental status exams. • Respond and adapt to psychosocial aspects of illness and functional limitations. • Bean expert clinician and problem solver. • Demonstrate responsiveness to the needs of patients and society that supersedes self - interest; accountability to patients, society, and the profession; andacommitment to excellence and on -going professional develop ment. • Demonstrateacommitment to ethical principles pertaining to provision or withholding of clinical care, confidentiality of patient information, informed consent, and business practices. • Demonstrate sensitivity and responsiveness to patients’ cultures, ages, genders, and/or disabilities. 2. Medical Knowledge • Manage complex medical problems. • Demonstrate knowledge and skills in assessing patients for various non -psychiatric services throughout appropriate to level of training. • Demonstrate knowledge of how psychiatric conditions interact with and impact the management ofavariety of non -psychiatric conditions. 3. Practice -Based Learning and Improvement • Review psychiatric and general medical literature to answer questions raised by non --- psychiatrist team members. • Apply knowledge of study designs and statistical methods to the appraisal of clinical studies and other information on diagnostic and therapeutic effectiveness. • Utilize information technology to manage information and support th eir own education. • Facilitate the teaching of students and other health care professionals. 4. Interpersonal and Communication Skills • Demonstrate compassion, respect, and professional integrity when relating to patients and their families and other staff. • Ensure medical records are timely, complete, and legible. • Skillfully obtain relevant assessment information concerning the nature and quality of the relationships between patients and their families and use this information in offering recommendations to the referring Inspira Health Psychiatry Residency Handbook 19 physician. • Possess excellent listening skills. 5. Professionalism • Be reliable and punctual. • Respect patient confidentiality. • Slow integrity, initiative, and leadership. • Cooperate, promote teamwork, and have mutual respect. • Accept responsibility for one’s own actions. • Establishatherapeutic and ethically sound relationship with patients. • Demonstrate compassion, sensitivity to and respect for the dignity of patients, families and colleagues as persons. Have thoughtful consideration for all these people’s ages, cultures, disabilities, ethnicities, genders, and sexual orientations. 6. Systems -Based Practice • Demonstrate excellent knowledge and practice of delivery systems. • Improve system of care by integration of their practice within the larger system. • Completely evaluate risks, benefits, limitations, and costs of available resources. Inspira Health Psychiatry Residency Handbook 20 Consultation Liaison Psychiatry Rotation PGY 2 Goal: Upon completion of the Consultation Liaison (CL) rotation at the PGY 2 level the resident will be able to function effectively in medical settings to deliver psychiatric consultation and care. Objectives: Residents completing the CL rotation are expected to be proficient in the following tasks in the following arenas: 1. Patient Care • Integrate medical knowledge with clinical data. • Demonstrate judicious use of diagnostic and therapeutic procedures. • Formulateamanagement plan for the appropriate level of care. • Generateadifferential diagnosis. • Provide comprehensive therapeutic and care plans, including plans for follow up. • Develop interview skills and document accurate mental status exams. • Respond and adapt to psychosocial aspects of illness and functional limitations. • Be an expert clinician and problem solver. • Demonstrate responsiveness to the needs of patients and society that supersedes self - interest; accountability to patients, society, and the profession; andacommitment to exce llence and on -going professional development. • Demonstrateacommitment to ethical principles pertaining to provision or withholding of clinical care, confidentiality of patient information, informed consent, and business practices. • Demonstrate sensitivity and responsiveness to patients’ cultures, ages, genders, and/or disabilities. 2. Medical Knowledge • Manage complex medical problems. • Demonstrate knowledge and skills in assessing patients for various non -psychiatric services throughout appropriate to level of training. • Demonstrate knowledge of how psychiatric conditions interact with and impact the management ofavariety of non -psychiatric conditions. 3. Practice -Based Learning and Improvement • Review psychiatric and general medical literature to answer questions raised by non --- psychiatrist team members. • Apply knowledge of study designs and statistical methods to the appraisal of clinical studies and other information on diagnostic and therapeutic effectiveness. • Utilize information technology to manage information and support their own education. • Facilitate the teaching of students and other health care professionals. 4. Interpersonal and Communication Skills • Demonstrate compassion, respect, and professional integrity when relating to patients and their families and other staff. • Ensure medical records are timely, complete, and legible. • Skillfully obtain relevant assessment information concerning the nature and quality of the relationships between patients and their families and use this information in offering recommendations to the referring physician. Inspira Health Psychiatry Residency Handbook 21 • Possess excellent listening skills. 5. Professionalism • Be reliable and punctual. • Respect patient confidentiality. • Slow integrity, initiative, and leadership. • Cooperate, promote teamwork, and have mut ual respect. • Accept responsibility for one’s own actions. • Establishatherapeutic and ethically sound relationship with patients. • Demonstrate compassion, sensitivity to and respect for the dignity of patients, families and colleagues as persons. Have thoug htful consideration for all these people’s ages, cultures, disabilities, ethnicities, genders, and sexual orientations. 6. Systems -Based Practice • Demonstrate excellent knowledge and practice of delivery systems. • Improve system of care by integration of their practice within the larger system. • Completely evaluate risks, benefits, limitations, and costs of available resources. Inspira Health Psychiatry Residency Handbook 22 Child and Adolescent Mental Health Unit (CAMHU) Rotation PGY 2 Goal: Upon completion of the CAMHU rotation the residents should be able to provide diagnostic assessment and treatment for children and adolescents with developmental disorders, disorders of attention, affective disorders, anxiety disorders, and psychosis. Objectives: Residents completing CAMHU rotations are expected to be proficient with the following tasks within the following competencies: 1. Patient Care • Show the ability to conductachild and adolescent psychiatric assessment including an age -appropriate mental status examination. • Demonstrate the ability to prescribe appropriate psychopharmacologic agents for children and adolescents. • Demonstrate the ability to utilize appropriate evaluation tools including medical, laboratory, radiological, and psycholog ical testing. • Demonstrate the ability to developacomprehensive formulation and inpatient treatment plan that includes biological, psychological, social, and spiritual domains. • Show the ability to conduct therapeutic interviews as tools for evaluation and treatment. • Learn and apply specific treatment strategies for adolescent substance use disorders. 2. Medical Knowledge • Demonstrate knowledge of the DSM -5 criteria for the major diagnostic categories seen in child and adolescent psychiatry settings. • Describe strategies for management of acute agitation of children and adolescents. • Know normal and pathological family dynamics and their relationships to the growth and development of children. • Show knowledge of the risk factors for suicide in children andadolescents. • Show knowledge of the standards and procedures for mandated reporting of child abuse. 3. Practice Based Learning and Improvement • Demonstrate the ability to learn independently by identifying one’s knowledge deficits and appropriately collec ting new information in that area. • Show awareness of how personal reactions and life history contribute to counter - transference. • Show awareness of counter -transference and its effects on patient care. 4. Interpersonal and Communication Skills • Exhibit theability to work on an interdisciplinary team by appropriately participating in all treatment team meetings. • Effectively communicate with families by conducting diagnostic and therapeutic interviews with family members. • Exhibit effective communication ski lls by obtaining informed consent for psychiatric treatment from parents and informed consent from minors. These skills include the ability to discuss risks, benefits, and alternative treatments in language understandable to minors and families. Inspira Health Psychiatry Residency Handbook 23 5. Prof essionalism • Show respectful and professional behavior by being on time to team and family meetings. • Demonstrate appropriate diligence of completing relevant paperwork, all evaluations, and patient care notes inatimely manner. • Show sensitivity to the depe ndent status of children and the ramifications of this aspect in the treatment alliance. 6. System -based Practice • Understand how the residential milieu environment works to positively or negatively influence the treatment of individual children or adolescents. • Demonstrate how to refer to other agencies that work with children and adolescents. Inspira Health Psychiatry Residency Handbook 24 Adult Inpatient Unit PGY 2 Goal: The goal of the inpatient unit rotation at the PGY 2 level is to provide supervised clinical experience and instruction in the assessment, diagnosis, and treatment of psychiatric inpatients. Objectives: Residents completing the psychiatry inpatient unit rotation at the PGY 2 level are expected to master the following tasks in the following domains: 1. Patient Care • Perform comprehensive psychiatric diagnostic interviews, includingaformal mental status examination. • Conduct comprehensive medical evaluations of psychiatric patients and be capable of integrating medical knowledge with clinical data. • Judiciously use diagnostic and therapeutic procedures. • Make all appropriate DSM ---5 diagnoses. • Learn how to develop appropriate differential diagnoses. • Formulate and implement treatment plans, taking into account psychiatric and medical co ---morbidities. Plans should begin to integrate various treatment modalities. • Manage acute behavioral disturbances inasafe and effective manner. • Demonstrate the abilityto educate patients and families about psychiatric illness, treatment plans, medications, and needs for follow ---up. • Provide continuous care for patients, including planning appropriate aftercare. 2. Medical Knowledge • Display appropriate knowledge of ba sic and clinical sciences relevant to Psychiatry. • Distinguish the criteria for major DSM ---5 disorders. • Learn how to integrate clinical findings, medical knowledge, evidence -based data, and sound clinical judgment. • Complete reading in required areas and de monstrate knowledge based on those readings. • Describe the basic principles and applications of the major classes of psychotropic medications. Haveaworking knowledge of their limitations, side effects, and important potential drug interactions. • Discuss tr eatment strategies for major psychiatric disorders such as schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, depression, anxiety disorders, dementia, delirium, and substance use disorders. • Discuss management strategies for refractory psychiatric presentations of major • psychiatric illnesses. 3. Practice -Based Learning and Improvement • Have the ability to utilizeavariety of educational resources in self ---directed learning. • Seek out clinical knowledge without prompting. • Facilitate the teaching of medical students and other health care professionals. • Begin to demonstrate autonomy in medical decision making and team leadership. • Utilize information technology to manage information and support their own education. 4. Interpersonal and Communication Skills • Demonstrate inte rviewing skills with patients by establishing rapport, clarifying the purpose of the interview, attending to cues, making transitions smoothly, demonstrating empathy, and eliciting Inspira Health Psychiatry Residency Handbook 25 important information. • Developatherapeutic alliance with patients and mai ntain appropriate professional boundaries. • Understand the role of other mental health professionals on the inpatient unit and be • capable of working collaboratively, demonstrated by ability to leadamultidisciplinary treatment team meeting. • Communicate eff ectively with the patient’s other care providers. • Learn how to present formal verbal and written case presentations, includingabiopsychosocial formulation. • Demonstrate an increased self -awareness, especially in understanding and appreciating transference and countertransference issues. 5. Professionalism • Be reliable and punctual. • Respect patient confidentiality. • Complete medical records inatimely, thorough, and legible manner. • Demonstrate integrity, initiative, and accept responsibility for own actions. • Demonstrate understanding of patients and their illnesses inasociocultural context, including displaying sensitivity to patients’ cultures, ethnicities, ages, genders, socioeconomic statuses, sexual minority statuses, and/or disabilities. 6. Systems - Based Practice • Demonstrate knowledge of practice and delivery systems. • Improve system of care by integration of their own practice within the larger system. • Describe the basic legal issues involved in inpatient psychiatry, including indicationsfor involuntary commitment, informed consent, duty to warn, and medicolegal aspects of record keeping. • Evaluate risks, benefits, limitations, and costs of available resources. • Demonstrateamore comprehensive understanding of medico -legal issues includingan understanding of the rights of and obligations toward court -ordered patients, the use of forced medication, and the process of testifying in hearings. • Demonstrate an understanding of cost -containment strategies balanced by the clinical needs of the patie nt, including length of stay issues, medication panels, generic versus non -generic medications, and the rationale for the use of each. • Display an understanding of multiple levels of care, including day treatment, • supported housing, inpatient and outpatie nt options, and co -morbid substance use disorders treatment. Display understanding of the limitations of treatment based on health care policy and cost. Inspira Health Psychiatry Residency Handbook 26 Forensic Psychiatry PGY 3 Goal: Upon completion of the forensic psychiatry rotation at Ancora Psychiatric Hospital, the residents are expected to be proficient in the management of patients inalong -term mental healthcare inpatient hospital withafocus on forensics. Objectives: Resid ents completing inpatient forensic psychiatry rotations are expected to be proficient with the following tasks under the following competencies: 1. Patient Care • Completeathorough general psychiatric diagnostic assessment. • Formulateacase integrating bi ological, psychological, social issues, and forensic issues. • Generate and carry -outaplan of care, including pharmacological, psychological, and social interventions. • Perform adequate psychiatric diagnostic interviews inaforensic setting, including asse ssing patients who have been deemed “not guilty by reason of insanity” and patients who have been “Incapacitated to stand trial.” • Use appropriate laboratory, neuropsychological, and other testing in the diagnosis and monitoring of psychiatric inpatients. 2. Medical Knowledge • Display broad general knowledge of the expected signs, symptoms, course, treatment, and social manifestations of mental disorders, including personality disorders, substance use disorders, and the psychiatric expression of medical diso rders. 3. Practice -Based Learning • Locate and critically appraise scientific literature relevant to inpatient and forensic issues. • Regularly use information technology in the service of patient care. • Participate in practice -based improvement activities (askfor supervision when appropriate). 4. Interpersonal and Communication Skills • Recognize their own characteristic responses to patients ("countertransference") and the effects of these responses on treatment. • Work effectively as part ofamultidisciplinary inpatient forensics team, collaborating with other mental health providers involved in the care of patients. • Createacollaborative relationship withawide variety of inpatients. 5. Professionalism • Respect patient autonomy and choice. • Demonstrate appropriate professional boundaries with inpatients inaforensic setting • Seek supervision for psychotherapeutic and pharmacologic assessments and interventions. • Dress professionally. 6. Systems -Based Practice • Make appropriate referrals for fu rther medical care when appropriate. Inspira Health Psychiatry Residency Handbook 27 • Appropriately advocate for quality patient care and help patients navigate system complexities. • Educate patients about available system resources for psychiatric illness and their role in accessing and working within th ese systems. • Communicate with mental health or other care providers, attorneys, and other relevant sources about the patient’s care (with patient consent). Inspira Health Psychiatry Residency Handbook 28 Geriatric Psychiatry PGY 2-3 Goal: Upon completion of the geriatric psychiatry rotation the residents are expected to be proficient in the management of geriatric patients in ambulatory, sub -acute, and long -term care facility settings. Objectives: Residents completing the geriatric psychi atry rotation are expected to be proficient with the following tasks under the following competency domains: 1. Patient Care • Engage, collect information, evaluate, diagnose, and establishatreatment plans for geriatric patients who present with dementias and psychiatric/behavioral symptoms. • Complete in -depth assessments to determine the correct diagnosis while attending to possible comorbid medical and neuropsychiatric diagnoses. • Treat patients and their families using the mode of treatment most suitable for the patient in their current situation. 2. Medical Knowledge • Know the techniques and interview styles used in the evaluation of older adults with sensitivity to the cognitive disorders that are common in this population. • Know the multiple medical disorders that are co -morbid with and often precipitate psychiatric symptoms in older adults. • Know the various pharmacological modalities used in treating psychiatric disorders in older adults and the literature related to their effectiveness. • Know the psychopharmacologic interventions used in the treatment of cognitive disorders in older adults. • Know the indications and possible side effects for each of the treatments listed above. • Understand and use neuropsychological data, various imaging, and la boratory data to arrive at the correct diagnosis and treatment plan for each individual. 3. Practice -Based Learning • Locate and critically appraise scientific literature relevant to geriatric psychiatry. • Regularly use information technology in the service of patient care. • Participate in practice -based improvement activities (ask for supervision when appropriate). 4. Interpersonal and Communication Skills • Ability to educate patients and families regarding psychiatric and cognitive disorders in the older adu lt population. • Ability to collaborate effectively with other members of the treatment team, such as primary care physicians and other therapists. 5. Professionalism • Demonstrate respect for the patient's and the family's stress during evaluation and treatment of psychiatric disorders in older individuals for whom this may be the first contact with psychiatry. • Demonstrate willingness to explain and discuss findings to patients, caregivers, and their families. • Have respect for and communication with ref erring physicians, therapists, and caregivers to optimize treatment. Inspira Health Psychiatry Residency Handbook 29 6. Systems Based Practice • Develop knowledge regarding the multiple systems of families, caregivers, and agencies necessary for the treatment of many older adults. Inspira Health Psychiatry Residency Handbook 30 Addiction Psychiatry PGY 3 Goal: Upon completion of the dual diagnosis/addiction psychiatry rotation, the resident is expected to be proficient in the management of patients inasubstance abuse mental healthcare center and to be comfortable with the management (including detoxification) of inpatients who haveasubstance use disorders and mental illness. Objectives: Residents completing the dual diagnosis/addiction psychiatry rotation are expected to be proficient with the following tasks under the following competency domains: 1. Pati ent Care • Completeathorough general psychiatric diagnostic assessment withafocus on substance use. • Formulateacase integrating biological, psychological, and social issues. • Perform adequate psychiatric diagnostic interviews in an inpatient substance ab use setting, including establishing rapport, eliciting important clinical information, and assessing emergent issues (e.g. suicidality, homicidality). • Use collateral information (e.g. from family members, caretakers, past treatment records) in assessment and treatment of substance use disorders. • Set appropriate goals for treatment and guide the patient through the process to discharge. • Prescribe appropriate pharmacological treatments treatment of substance use disorders. 2. Medical Knowledge • Demonstrate kn owledge of established and evolving principles and practice of psychiatric phenomenology, including the recognition and diagnosis of both general psychiatric conditions and substance use disorders. 3. Practice -Based Learning • Locate and critically appraise scientific literature relevant to substance use and patient care. • Regularly use information technology in the service of patient care. • Participate in practice -based improvement activities. 4. Interpersonal and Communication Skills • Enga ge patients in treatment and maintainabasic therapeutic alliance throughout the duration of treatment in the inpatient substance use setting. • Work effectively as part ofamultidisciplinary inpatient substance abuse team, collaborating with other mental health providers involved in the care of the patient (e.g. case managers, psychologists, social workers, nurses). • Createacollaborative relationship withawide variety of patients, including ones difficult to engage, so as to gain essential informationand build and implementatherapeutic plan. • Educate patients and their families and demonstrate an understanding of the stresses involved in havingasubstance use disorder. • Communicate effectively with patients, families, and others across the broad range of socioeconomic and cultural backgrounds served at Hampton Behavioral Health Care Center. • Interview patients and family in an effective manner to facilitate accurate diagnosis and the development of biopsychosocial formulations. Inspira Health Psychiatry Residency Handbook 31 5. Professionalism • Respe ct for patient autonomy and choice. • Seek supervision for psychotherapeutic and pharmacologic assessments and interventions. • Develop and demonstratearespectful attitude toward patients with addictive disorders. • Implement ethical principles in practice withpatients and co -workers. • Demonstrate appropriate professional boundaries in the context of interpersonal issues that arise during psychiatric care in relation to substance abuse. 6. Systems -Based Practice • Provide clinically appropriate and cost-effective care for patients with substance use disorders. • Appropriately advocate for quality patient care and help patients navigate system complexities. • Familiarize oneself of the range of services for patients with addictive behaviors including inpa tient and outpatient substance use programs, self -help groups, and other available resources. • Communicate with ancillary medical providers, mental health providers, and other relevant sources of information for patient care, with the patient’s consent. Inspira Health Psychiatry Residency Handbook 32 Adult Inpatient Unit PGY 3 Goal: The goal of the inpatient unit rotation at the PGY 3 level is to provide supervised clinical experience with progressive responsibilities and instruction in the assessment, diagnosis, and treatment of psychiatric inpatients. Objectives: Residents complet ing the psychiatry inpatient unit rotation at the PGY 3 level are expected to master the following tasks in the following domains: 1. Patient Care • Perform comprehensive psychiatric diagnostic interviews, includingaformal mental status examination. • Condu ct comprehensive medical evaluations of psychiatric patients and be capable of integrating medical knowledge with clinical data. • Judiciously use diagnostic and therapeutic procedures. • Make all appropriate DSM ---5 diagnoses. • Learn how to develop appropriate differential diagnoses. • Formulate and implement treatment plans, taking into account psychiatric and medical co ---morbidities. Plans should begin to integrate various treatment modalities. • Manage acute behavioral disturbances inasafe and effective manner. • Demonstrate the ability to educate patients and families about psychiatric illness, treatment plans, medications, and needs for follow ---up. • Provide continuous care for patients, including planning appropriate aftercare. 2. Medical Knowl edge • Display appropriate knowledge of basic and clinical sciences relevant to Psychiatry. • Distinguish the criteria for major DSM ---5 disorders. • Learn how to integrate clinical findings, medical knowledge, evidence -based data, and sound clinical judgment. • Complete reading in required areas and demonstrate knowledge based on those readings. • Describe the basic principles and applications of the major classes of psychotropic medications. Haveaworking knowledge of their limitations, side effects, and important potential drug interactions. • Discuss treatment strategies for major psychiatric disorders such as schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, depression, anxiety disorders, dementia, delirium, and substance use disorders. • Discuss management strategies for refractory psychiatric presentations of major • psychiatric illnesses. 3. Practice -Based Learning and Improvement • Have the ability to utilizeavariety of educational resources in self ---directed learning. • Seek out clinical knowledge without prompting. • Facilitatethe teaching of medical students and other health care professionals. • Begin to demonstrate autonomy in medical decision making and team leadership. • Utilize information technology to manage information and support their own education. 4. Interpersonal and Communication Skills • Demonstrate interviewing skills with patients by establishing rapport, clarifying the purpose of the interview, attending to cues, making transitions smoothly, demonstrating empathy, and eliciting important informatio n. Inspira Health Psychiatry Residency Handbook 33 • Developatherapeutic alliance with patients and maintain appropriate professional boundaries. • Understand the role of other mental health professionals on the inpatient unit and be • capable of working collaboratively, demonstrated by ability to leadamu ltidisciplinary treatment team meeting. • Communicate effectively with the patients other care providers. • Learn how to present formal verbal and written case presentations, includingabiopsychosocial formulation. • Demonstrate an increased self -awareness, esp ecially in understanding and appreciating transference and countertransference issues. 5. Professionalism • Be reliable and punctual. • Respect patient confidentiality. • Complete medical records inatimely, thorough, and legible manner. • Demonstrate integrity, initiative, and accept responsibility for own actions. • Demonstrate understanding of patients and their illnesses inasociocultural context, including displaying sensitivity to patients’ cultures, ethnicities, ages, genders, socioeconomic statuses, sexual minority statuses, and/or disabilities. 6. Systems - Based Practice • Demonstrate knowledge of practice and delivery systems. • Improve system of care by integration of their own practice within the larger system. • Describe the basic legal issues involved in inpatient psychiatry, including indications for involuntary commitment, informed consent, duty to warn, and medicolegal aspects of record keeping. • Evaluate risks, benefits, limitations, and costs of available resources. • Demonstrateamore comprehensive understanding of medicogal issues including an understanding of the rights of and obligations toward court -ordered patients, the use of forced medication, and the process of testifying in hearings. • Demonstrate an understanding of cost -contain ment strategies balanced by the clinical needs of the patient, including length of stay issues, medication panels, generic versus non -generic medications, and the rationale for the use of each. • Display an understanding of multiple levels of care, including day treatment, • supported housing, inpatient and outpatient options, and co -morbid substance use disorders treatment. Display understanding of the limitations of treatment based on health care policy and cost. Inspira Health Psychiatry Residency Handbook 34 Ambulatory PGY 4 Goal: Upon co mpletion of the PGY 4 year, the residents should be able to function independently and to followalarge number of patients longitudinally. Throughayearlong experience, residents gainasense of the breadth and depth of psychiatric disorders and their tr eatment. Objectives: Residents completing the ambulatory outpatient experience are expected to proficient in medication management and psychotherapy and with the following tasks under the following competency domains: 1. Patient Care • Demonstrate the ability to apply supportive, psychodynamic, and cognitive -behavioral psychotherapies in both brief and long -term practice. • Develop biopsychosocial formulations that lead to appropriate treatment interventions. • Demonstrate the ability to saf ely use pharmacologic regimens that are evidence -based and appropriate for each individual patient. • Determine the appropriate use of medications and psychotherapy in the same patient. • Establish and maintainatherapeutic alliance with patients. • Maintainsappropriate professional boundaries in psychotherapeutic relationships while being responsive to the patient. 2. Medical Knowledge • Appropriately diagnose mood disorders, anxiety disorders, and psychotic disorders in an outpatient setting. • Appropriately dos e, titrate, and taper antidepressant mediations. • Appropriately dose, titrate, and taper mood stabilizers for bipolar disorder. • Exhibit the effective use of medications used in adjunctive treatment of mood and anxiety disorders. • Describe the basic principle s, techniques, and differences among each of the three core individual psychotherapy modalities. 3. Practice Based Learning and Improvement • Learn independently by identifying any knowledge deficits and appropriately collecting new information in those are as. • Demonstrate the ability to apply new knowledge to patient care issues. 4. Interpersonal and Communication Skills • Exhibit the ability to work with ancillary staff by responding quickly and professionally to staff requests concerning patient care issues. • Effectively communicate patient’s condition and needs when making referrals to other treatment providers. • Demonstrate appropriate and effective communication with primary care physicians involved in care of shared patients. • Demonstrate appropriate communication with other treatment providers involved in the care of shared patients. 5. Professionalism • Show respectful and professional behavior by being on time to meetings and patient appointments. Inspira Health Psychiatry Residency Handbook 35 • Demonstrate appropriate diligence to paperwork/docume nts by having all notes and write - ups completed inatimely manner. Attend to any deficiencies in the EMR as referenced by the office staff/office manager. • Demonstrate appropriate boundaries at all times. • Always notify site personnel when sick, late, ordelayed for duties. 6. System -based Practice • Know how to refer to other agencies within the system and make those referrals when appropriate. • Demonstrate the ability to work with medication formularies to minimize costs to patient. • Appropriately follows pr ocedures to procure needed medical treatment when necessary, including prior authorization and requesting/sending of medical records (with patient’s consent). • Works with health care managers to improve quality of and access to patient care within the facil ity. Inspira Health Psychiatry Residency Handbook 36 Outpatient Clinics PGY 4 Goal: Upon completion of the PGY 4 year, the residents should be able to function more independently and to followalarge number of patients longitudinally atapartial care program. Throughayearlong experience, residents gainasense of the breadth and depthof psychiatric disorders and their treatment. Objectives: Residents completing the community outpatient experience are expected to be proficient with the following tasks under the following competency domains: 1. Patient Care • Perform psychiatric diagno stic evaluations atacommunity mental health center. • Care for patients with chronic psychiatric illness in several community settings withinalarge not -for-profit psychiatric rehabilitation organization. This organization which supported housing, vocatio nal rehabilitation, mobile assessment, outreach, and other psychiatric services to the homeless mentally ill. 2. Medical Knowledge • Learn about the chronically mentally ill and mentally ill offenders. • Become familiar with the "recovery model" of mental health care. • Demonstrate an understanding of the larger system in which the community mental health center resides. 3. Practice -Based Learning and Improvement • Incorporate data fromavariety of sources into treatment planning and patient care while treating patients in the community on mobile assessment and outreach. • Locate and critically appraise scientific literature relevant to patient care. • Regularly use information technology in the service of patient care. 4. Interpersonal and Communication Skills • Work with case workers when they are interacting with patients in homes, on the streets, and in other public settings. • Learn and utilize engagement techniques for reaching difficult -to-treat and reluctant patients. 5. Professionalism • Demonstrate respect and compassion for others. • Demonstrate reliable attendance and appropriate professional attire. • Demonstrate integrity, accountability, and an ethical approach to outpatient treatment (e.g. maintaining professional boundaries and obtaini ng informed consent for treatment). • Demonstrate understanding of patients and their illnesses inasociocultural context, including displaying sensitivity to patients’ cultures, ethnicities, ages, genders, socioeconomic statuses, sexual minority statuses, and/or disabilities. • Demonstrate concise, accurate, and timely record keeping. 6. Systems -Based Practice • Experience the activities of community treatment of the chronically mentally ill as conducted inacommunity clinic and in non-institutional settings. • Gain experience working asateam member with case workers Inspira Health Psychiatry Residency Handbook 37 PROGRAM POLICIES Professionalism Policy It is the policy of ROWAN -SOM Departmentof Psychiatry & Inspira Health Psychiatry Residency Program to raise awareness of pro fessionalism within the community asawhole. In short, professionalism is comprised ofacombination of altruism, accountability, excellence, duty, honor, integrity, respect, and commitment to lifelong learning. Our professional policy is based on thefollowing beliefs: a. Residents and clinical fellows will demonstrate conduct consistent with the dignity and integrity of the medical profession in all contacts with patients, their families, the faculty, all School personnel, and all third parties conductingbusiness with the resident or Inspira Health / ROWAN -SOM. b. The resident will, inatimely fashion, fulfill their professional responsibilities. Failure to fulfill clinical, academic, and administrative duties, including completion of patient charts and duty ho urs logging, can result in remediation or disciplinary action, including suspension of any or all privileges. c. The resident will strive for personal growth and improvement and accept criticism with dignity, seek to be aware of their own inadequacies, be open to change, accept responsibility for their own errors or failures, and stray from displayingapoor attitude under stress. d. The resident will maintain appropriate relat ionships with other individuals, especially those encountered asaresult of their clinical training. e. Each resident will protect and respect the ethical and legal rights of patients. f. The resident will, inatimely fashion, clearly communicate all informa tion relevant to the safe, effective and compassionate care of their patients to their supervising staff. g. Both residents and faculty are expected to fulfilltheir professional responsibilities asaphysician to appear for duty appropriately rested and fit to provide the services required by their patients. h. Our residency program will help ensureaculture of professionalism that supports patient safety and personal responsibility. Inspira Health Psychiatry Residency Handbook 38 RESIDENTS' INPATIENT RESPONSIBILITY POLICY This policy is intended to assure that residents achieve the educational objectives that are central to learning how to conductacomprehensive psychiatric evaluation and care for psychiatric patients. The goals for this pro gram include the following: 1. Proficiency in evaluation and management of psychiatric inpatients, part icularly persons suffering from major mental illness. Specific areas of competence include: • Cross -sectional and longitudinal histories • Physical examination, laboratory evaluation, and appropriate consultations • Mental status examination • Differential diagnosis • Understanding the impact of psychosocial issues on illness and recovery • Recogniti on and treatment of substance use, including withdrawal and intoxication syndromes and management issues involving the dually diagnosed patient • Formulation and implementation of treatment plans 2. Understanding of the use of psychotropic medications 3. Knowledge andappreciation of the roles of nursing, social services, adjunctive therapy,psychology, and the therapeutic milieu of patient care 4. Familiarity with basic concepts of family interventions 5. Familiarity with mental healthcourt procedures 6. Familiarity with the relationship between the inpatient units and thecommunity mental healthsystem Inspira Health Psychiatry Residency Handbook 39 This policy is for all PGY -I through PGY -IV residents. PROCEDURE 1. Residents are expected to be on their respective units by 8:0 0 a.m. each morning. The residents are expected to review the status of their patients throughacombination of taking report from nursingand/or reviewing the patients’ chartsand/or interv iewing the patient s. 2. The resident will attend all treatment team meetings and be prepared to review their cases with the treatment team. 3. Residents are expected to doacomplete and comprehensive admission assessment on each patient unless otherwise directed by the attending psychiatrist and complete daily progress notes on each of their patients unless otherwise directed by the attendi ng psychiatrist. 4. All new patients will be evaluated with the attending psychiatrist, and the treatment interventions will be reviewed with the attending psychiatrist. 5. Residents are expected to completeadischarge note on all patients who are being discharged on their service unless otherwise directed by the attending psychiatrist, and they are also expected to dictateadischarge summary. Also, onadaily basis, residents will be expected to review each of their patients ’ progress with the att ending physician and only initiate treatment interventions after the attending physician has approved it. 6. Residents will be expected to attend all scheduled case conferences both on and off of the unit. 7. Residents will be allowed vacation days ; however, it must be pre -arranged and pre -approved by the unit Medical Director as well as the Program D irector. Furthermore, the residents must make arrangements for their patients to be covered by other residents. A sign out sheet detailing every patient is helpful for other residents who are covering in the interim. In the event ofapersonal emergency whenaresident has to leave the unit in the middle of the day, it is mandatory that the unit attending be informed, and arrangements be made with the attend ing for care of their patients for the remainder of the day. Residents will be expected to do physical and neurological exams and order laboratory or radiology studies as clinical necessary to facilitate the care of their patients. 8. Residents will beexpected to complete all paperwork as directed by the attending physician, which may include mental health court papers, disability forms, or clinical summaries for aftercare providers. Inspira Health Psychiatry Residency Handbook 40 Psychiatry Residency OUTPATIENT PATIENT CLINIC RESIDENCY REQUIREMENTS The Inspira Health Psychiatry Residency Program is dedicated to training residents to function effectively in the outpatientclinic. This experience is central to the effective functioning of the competent psychiatrist, andacontinuous 12 -month exper ience isarequirement. Residents learn psychotherapeutic and psychopharmacologic skills from the first day of residency through educational seminars and conferences, observation of psychiatric faculty, and being supervised on their own patients. However, during the required outpatient year, the resident learns and practices the required psychotherapy competencies in greater breadth and depth than was possible earlier in the residency, and additional skills necessary for the competent practice of psychiat ry are practiced. In addition, the continuous 12 -month experience givesalongitudinal understanding of the course of mental disorders as well as the process of psychotherapy and psychopharmacology. Procedure A. All residents doa12 -month contin uous, full time rotation in the outpatientclinic. B. Residents have one to two individual faculty supervisors during the outpatient year who useavariety of supervision methods to guide the resident’s progress in developing the requisite knowledge, skills, and attit udes. These include review of charts, case presentations, direct observation of interactions with patients, indirect supervision in regularly scheduled sessions with the attending, audiotapes of interactions with patients, and videotapes of interactions wi th patients. The outpatient supervisors will closely supervise the residents to be sure they haveabreadth and depth of experience, that their charts are completed accurately and promptly, and that they me et all the requirements of the outpatientservice. a. At the conclusion of the PGY 4 year, each resident will providealist of their current patients to the Program Director along with recommendations for follow -up. Residents will be responsible for proposing disposition recommendations for each of their patients, which will be discussed with the supervising attendings ina group meeting in the Spring of their 4th year prior to their graduation. b. These patients will be listed on the patientlog as well. C. Residents will develop competence in the five Psychotherapy Competencies during their PGY -III and PGY - IV years. Inspira Health Psychiatry Residency Handbook 41 SCHOLARLY ACTIVITY REQUIREMENT Goal: Each resident is required to completeascholarly project during residency. The goals of this project are to: 1. Demonstrate the ability to perform an in -depth, comprehensive, and scholarly litera ture search and analysis of onatopicwithin or related to psychiatry that is of particular interest to the resident. 2. Identify the potential clinical relevance of findings from research and the scien tific literature. 3. Develop oral presentation and teaching skills. 4. Developawritten scholarly product, such asacase report, data -based article, review article, research proposal, curriculum, or report ofaquality improvement (QI) study that is publishabl e. To accomplish these goals, each resident will work withafaculty advisor, and they will evaluate the resident's performance in achieving the goals and objectives of this project. Residents may collaborate on group projects, as long as each resident mak esasubstantial contribution to the project and meets the specific objectives listed below. Specific O bjectives Each resident will be proficient in the following domains at the completion of their scholarly activity: Knowledge • Conductacomprehensivereview of the literature relevant toatopic, clinical case, or research project. Skills • Identifyatopic area to review,aresearch project to participate in/complete,aclinical case appropriate for pres entation foracase report (e.g.anovel presentation of an illness, diagnostic dilemma, unexpected outcome), oraQI study to conduct onaclinical service. • Develop an oral presentation, including (as appropriate)aPowerPoint presentation, handouts, bibliography, arti cles for distribution, and/or other audiovisual materials (e.g. videotapes). • Effectively give an oral presentation, includingascholarly discussion of the topic, research, or issues raised byaclinical case. • Writearesearch paper, research proposal (e.g. grant or part ofagrant), review article, annotated bibliography, case report and discussion, report ofaQI study, or curriculum. Attitudes • Understand and appreciate the role of scholarship and critical review of the literature in improvi ng one's clinical practice, teaching, and/or performing research. Inspira Health Psychiatry Residency Handbook 42 Resident Faculty Advisor/Mentor Responsibilities Policy Psychiatry residents are assigned toamentor throughout their four years of training. The advisor’s role is to be the resident’s mentor in issues of professional training and career planning, as well as to assist in the resident’s ongoing training and evaluation process. The mentor undertakes the following primary responsibilities: 1. Set upaschedule for regular meetings with the resident for the academic year, focusing on plans for self - asse ssment and monitoring progress. 2. Provide residents with advice to help them study for the psychiatric boards and prepare for in -service exams (e.g. PRITE) and quizzes starti ng early in their PGY -I year and fol low-up on these plans over time. The minimum frequency of meetings is once per quarter. 3. Discuss resident’s performance on the PRITE. For those residents who fall below the national mean, the resident and faculty advisor will developaremediation plan to improve the identified areas of weakness. The plan will be closely monitored to assist the resident in attaining scores at or above the national mean. 4. Guide the resident to an appropriate mentor for his or her research project. The goal is for each resident to developaresearch interest and become involved in an independent research study under the guidance ofamentor. The mentor also assists the resid ent in becoming part of any ongoing projects by the end of the PGY -IV. 5. Provide additional focus on career gu idance to residents in the PGY -II through PGY -IV years. After exploring their interests and future plans, it may be necessary to direct residentsto other faculty members who may provide additional guidance in the resident’s field of interest. Inspira Health Psychiatry Residency Handbook 43 SUPERVISION OF RESIDENTS POLICY Resident A resident isaphysician who is engaged inagraduate education program in P sychiatryorapsychiatric subspecia lty and who participates in patient care under the direction of attending physicians (or licensed independent practitioners). As part of their education al program, residents are given gradedand progressive responsibilities according to the individualresident’s clinical experience, judgment, knowledge, and technical skill s. Each resident must know the limits of their scope of authority and the circumstances under which they are permitted to act with conditional independence. Residents are responsible forasking for help from the supervising physician (or other appropriate licensed practitioner) for the service they are rotating on when they are uncertain of diagnosis, how to performadiagnostic or therapeutic intervention, or how to implement an appropr iate plan of care. Attending of Record ( “Attend ing”) An identifiable, appropriately -credentialed, and privileged attending physician, or licensed independent practitioner, who is ultimately responsible for the management of the individual patient and for the supervision of residents involved in the care of the patient. The attending delegates portions of care to residents based on the needs of the patient and the skills of the residents. Supervision To ensure oversight of resident supervision and graded authority and responsibility, the following levels of supervision are recognized: 1. Direct Supervision – the supervisor (attending, licensed independent practitioner, or senior resident with documented supervisory capability) is physically present with the resident and patient. 2. Indirect Supervision a) With direct supervision immediately available – The supervisor is physically within the hospital or other site of patient care and is im mediately available to provide directsupervision if need be after the resident has seen the patient. b) Without direct supervision available – The supervi sor is not physically present within the hospital or other site of patient care, but is immediately available by means of telephonic and/or electronic modalities and is available to come to the si te of care in order to provide direct supervision if need be. 2. Oversight – The supervising physician is available to provide review of patient care with feedback provided after care is delivered. Clinical Responsibilities The clinical responsibilities for each resident are based on PGY level, patient safety, resid ent education, severity and complexity of patient illness/condition, and available support services. The specific role of each resident varies with their clinical rotation, experience, duration of clinical training, the patient's illness, and the clinical demands placed on the team. The following isaguide to the specific patient care responsibilities by year of clinical training. Residents must comply with the supervision standards of the service on which they are rotating unlessotherwise specified by th eir Program D irector. Inspira Health Psychiatry Residency Handbook 44 PGY -I PGY-II residents are primarily responsible for the care of patients under the guidance and supervision of the attending physician and senior residents. They should generally be the point of first contact when questions or concerns arise about the care of their patients. However, when questions or concerns persist, supervising residents and/or the attending physician should be cont acted inatimely fashion. PGY -I residents areinitially directly supervised, and when merited, wi ll progress to being indirectly supervised with direct supervision immediately available (see definitions above) by an att ending or senior resident. PGY -I residents may progress to being supervised indirectly with direct supervision available only after de monstrating competence in: a) The ability and willingness to ask for help when indicated b) Gathering an appropriate history c) The ability to perform an emerg ent psychiatric assessment d) Presenting patient findings and data accurately toasupervisor who has not seen thepatient PGY -II Intermediate residents may be directly or indirectly supervised by an attending physician or senior resident but will provide all services under supervision. They may supervise medical students. The attending physician is ultimately responsible for the care of the patient. PGY -III and PGY -IV Senior residents may be supervised directly, indirectly, or by oversight. They may provide direct patient care, supervisory care, or consultative services with progressi vely graded responsibilit ies as merited. They must provide all services ultimately under the supervision of an attending physician. Senior residents should serve inasuper visory role of medical students and junior, intermediate, andin the case of fellows PGYIV, V, or VI, PGY -III or PGY-IV residents. As resident supervisors, residents will in recogni ze their supervisees’ progress towards independence as is appropriate to the needs of each patient and theskills of the senior resident. The attending physici an is ultimately responsible for the care of the patient. Whenasenior resident is supervisingamore junior resident, both residents should inform patients of their respective roles in that patient’s care. Attending of Record In the clinical learning en vironment, each patient must have an identifiable, appropriately credentialed, and privileged primary attending physician who is ultimately responsible for that patient’s care. The attending physician is responsible for assuring the quality of care providedand for addressing any problems thatoccur in the care of patients. In this role, the attending of record must be available to provide direct supervision when appropriate for optimal care of the patient. The availability of the attending to the resident is expected to be greater with less experienced residents and with increased acuity of the patient’s illness. The attending must notify all residents they supervise of when they should be called regardingapatient’s status. The attending should notifythe resident of situations in which they need to be physically present or informed of situations pertinent to patient care. Situations that require direct attending involvement/presence /notification are: a) W hen the patient's conditiondeteriorates unexpe ctedly b) W hen additional information challenges the working diagnosis and/or treatment plan c) W hen information is obtained that raises concerns about the patient's risk for self -harm or harm to others Inspira Health Psychiatry Residency Handbook 45 d) W hen the patient or family membersdisagree with the treatment plan e) W hen there are serious disagreements or conflicts within the treatment team orwith other services or providers f) W hen decisions need to be made that have major clinical or legal implications, such as decisions not to hospitalize suicidal or homicidal patients During on -call duty, the resident will notify the on -call attending when: a) The resident has any questions or concerns about thepatient or the care provided; b) W henapatient decide to leave against medical advice (AMA ) Supervision of Consults Residents may provide consultation services under the direction of attendings or supervisory residents. The attending of record is ultimately responsi ble for the care of the patient, and thus must be available to provide direct supervision when appropriate for optimal care. The availability of the attending and supervisory residents or fellows should be appropriate to the level of training, experience, and competence of the consult resid ent. The direct supervision of the attending is expected to be greater with increasing acuity of the patient’s illness. Information regarding the availability of attendings and supervisory residents or fellows should be available to residents, faculty memb ers, and patients. Residents performing consultations on patients are expected to communicate verbally with their supervising attending as soon as possible after seeing the patient and certainly within 24 hours. For night float/on call residents, the resid ent should communicate verbally with the supervising attending within the same call or night float shift. Any resident performingaconsultation where there is credible concern for the patient’s life, requiring the need for immediate intervention, MUST com municate directly with the supervising attending as soon as possible prior to intervention or discharge from the hospital. Supervision of Hando ffs/Sign -Out Residents, attendings, and other primary providers on psychiatry services must provide structuredverbal and electronic handoffs when transferring care ofapatient and must be available to receive handoffs when taking over the care ofapatient. Residents may be supervised directly or indirectly, by an atten ding or supervisory resident, when giving and receiving handoffs. Junior residents should be directly supervised in givingand receiving handoffs initially to establish competence. The attending physician remains responsible for assuring that appropriate handoffs are occurring and is ultimately respo nsible for the patient’s care. Resident Competence & Delegated Authority The privil eges of each resident’s progressive authority, responsibility, conditional independence, and supervisory role in patient care delegated must be assigned by the Program D irector and appropriate faculty members. The Program D irector must evaluate each resident’s abilities based on specific criteria, which include: a. Documentati on on at least three occasions ofaPGY -I’s readiness for indirect supervision with direct supervisionavailable. b. Documentation ofaPGY -I’s competence in providing and receiving handoffs. c. Satisfactory peer evaluations of residents by training call residents (supervisory residents evaluating junior residents) or by trainees (more junior residents evaluating supervisory residents) d. Clinical rotation evaluations e. Clinical skills assessments Inspira Health Psychiatry Residency Handbook 46 Expectations Regarding Supervision Supervision is designed to help residents to learn the principles and practice of Psychiatry. Residents are supervised throughoutresidency as part of every clinical experience. Beginning residents have close, daily supervision. As residents progress through the residency, they will generally be supervised less closely and less frequently. Residents will be givenincreasing respon sibility for patient care inagraduated manner appropriate to their level of training and skills. In addition, senior residents are expected to supervise junior residents (with attending backup) during training call. Overview of Speci fic Required Types of Supervision by Post -Graduate Year: PGY-I • Daily supervision with inpatient Psychiatry attending on rounds • During Psychiatry rotations, one hour per week of supervision with the inpatient attending (apart from rounds) • Backup attending supervision when on -call (please see below for guidelines about when to contact your on-call backup attending) PGY-II • Daily sup ervision with inpatient/consult attending on rounds • One hour per week of sup ervision with inpatient/consult attending (apart fromrounds) • Back up atte nding supervision when on -call PGY-III • Daily sup ervision with inpatient/consult attending, as relevant • One hour per week of sup ervision with inpatient/consult attending (apart from rounds), as relevant • Back up attending supervision during clinic days and when on -call PGY-IV • Caseload supervision in every clinic (one hour per clinic day) • Back up attending supervision during clinic days and when on -call Interactions between residents and supervising faculty attendings are governed by the following principles: • Interactions between residents and attendings are expected to be respectful, collegial, and focused on the common goal of excellent patient care. • A resident should at all times have direct access (in person or by telep hone) toafaculty attending. • When the attending is on vacation or otherwise unavailable,aspecific covering attending will be designated. • A faculty attending on the clinical service in which patient care takes place is designated as the supervising attending and has the ultimate clinical and legal responsibility for the care provided, although the resident is encouraged(and may be required) to consult with other clinical or regular faculty supervisors. • Residents will present new cases to the attending on daily rounds on the inpatient and CL psychiatry services. • On outpatient rotations, the resident will present new cases to the attending (caseloadsupervisor) as soon as possible and will provide regular updates for ongoing cases. • Residen ts on Psychiatry services (i.e. not on Medicine, Pediatrics, or Neurology) will have at least two hours of individual supervision per week (including individual supervi sion with the inpatient/consult attending ). Inspira Health Psychiatry Residency Handbook 47 • Asateacher, the supervisor/attending is ex pected to provide the resident with information, guidance, and choices in patient care. • The attending/supervisor needs to keep abreast of clinical issues on the service or with the resident’s patient caseload, and supervision needs to be sufficiently closeto allow them to notice problems. • The attending/supervisor needs to monitor the resident’s performance and give regular, constructive feedback. • The attending/supervisor determines how closely the resident needs to be supervised and how much reporting they expect fromaparticular resident, depending on the resident’s level of training, experience, and skills. • The resident is expected to be open to learning, willing to consult, and prepared to fully inform the attending/supervisor about all patient care is sues. In addition to all expectations listed above and within this policy, the supervising attending also needs to be informed by the resident of the following situations : • When the patient’s cond ition deteriorates unexpectedly • When additional informati on puts the working diagnosis in doubt or questions the treatment plan • When information is obtained that raises concerns regarding the patient’s riskfor self -harm and/or harm to others • When the patient or family membersdisagree with the treatment plan • When there are serious disagreements or conflicts within the treatment team or wi th other services or providers • When decisions need to be made that have major clinical or legal implications, such as decisions not to hospitalize suicidal or homicidal patients During on -call or night float duty, the resident will notify the on -call attending when: • The resident has any questions or concerns aboutthe patient or the care provided • When the patients decidesto leave AMA Any resident or supe rvisor who feels uncomfortable with any supervision relationship, for whatever reason, should consult the Program Director, Associate Program Director (if there is one), and/or Chief Resident at the clinical site for help and guidance. Inspira Health Psychiatry Residency Handbook 48 Patient Safety & Quality Improvement Patientsafety is the delivery of healthcare inamanner that employs safety methods and minimizes the incidence and impact of adverse events while maximizing recovery from such events. Qualityimprovement isaformal approach to assess the degree to which services pr ovided by healthcare professionals for individuals and populations increases the likelihood of the desired outcome and are consistent with evide nce-based standards of care. Quality improvement also includes the systematic effort to improve performance. The goal of this cu rriculum is to educate P sychiatry residents on the principles and practices of patient safety and quality improvement. Objectives and Expectations By the end of this curriculum, learners will be able to: 1. Discuss the historical background of patient safety (PS) and quality improvement (QI). 2. Define PS and QI problems specific to Psychiatry. 3. Demonstrateahigh quality handoff/sign -out by the end of intern year. 4. FormulateaQI project or participate inaproject that is already in progress. 5. Demonstrate behaviors associated with effective teamwork and interpersonal and communication skills. Inspira Health Psychiatry Residency Handbook 49 Communication Policy 1. At all times, Sharon Mead Kates, the Psychiatry Residency Program Manager, must have all current phone numb ers, addresses, andemail address. If any changes are made, you must notify her within four hours of the next business day. 2. All residents must have current Inspira Health email addresses. These will be assigned by Information Technology (IT) upon yourstarting residency. Some of your hub locations for clinical servicesmay also assign youemail addresses affiliated with their institutions. All residents are required to check their work EMAIL AT LEAST ONCE PER DAY, unless you are on “approved vacation” time. Personal emailaccounts, such as “yahoo” or “gmail” are not sufficient or HIPPA compliant for work related communications. 3. If on duty, when called by the Department of Psychiatry, you must respond within ONE HOUR of the call. 4. While on call, all residents must have immediate access toatelephone. If you do not haveaphone available, youwill be required to take call in -house. While on call, it is expected that all calls will be responded to WITHIN 15 (FIFTEEN) MINUTES of the call. 5. If your cell phone is malfunctioning, it is your responsibility to contact your program administration or your hub site immediately. 6. Please be advised that the Program Director will be doing intermittent and random audits on the daily messagesheets from the Department of Psychiatry answering service to ensure compliance with these guidelines. Inspira Health Psychiatry Residency Handbook 50 PERMIT/LICENSE GUIDELINES FOR RESIDENTS All PGY -I residents are registered by name with the New Jersey State Board of Medical Examiners (NJSBME). This registration is done by the Graduate Medical Education (GME) office. All PGY -II residents are required to obtainaNJ Permit from the NJSBME. The processfor applying forapermit is do ne in conjunction with the GME O ffice and the Department of Psychiatry Program Coordinator. Application information will come out in the December/Ja nuary timeframe during your PGY -I year. Fingerprinting for the permit MUS T be compl eted in May before starting PGY -II. The Department of Ps ychiatry requires that all PGY -III residents possessan New Jersey medical license by October of their PGY -III year. Failure to obtainaNJ License may result in extension of the residency program sincealicense is required for outpatient training, andaresidentis required to provide 12 months of continuous outpatient care to meet program requirements. The Department of Psychiatry will reimburse residents forthe cost of their NJ medical License. NJ medicallicense applications are completed online on the NJSBME website: https://www.njconsumeraffairs.gov/bme/Pages/applications.aspx Since the application process can take 12 weeks or longer, residents should apply no later than July of PGY -III. Residen ts must also meet with the GME O ffice to review the application proceduresand requirements before subm itting their application. Before submitting your license application to the NJSBME, you must makeacopy of your application and give it to the Program Coordinator. After receiving your NJ medicallicense, you must also obtain Federal DEA and CDS license s, and copies of all three documents must be submitted to the Program Manager /Department Administrator. All three documents must be renewed as necessary to be kept current, and as future renewals are obtained, copies must be also submitted to the Program Manager /Department Administrator. Psychiatry residents must meet the following requirements /performthe following actions to apply for and receiveaNJ medical license : 1. The resident will obtain the licensure packet from the NJSBME in July of their PGY -III year. These forms will be completed andacopy submitted to Sharon Mead Kates, the Program Manager, who will maintainafile for the resident. All supporting documents required by the licensure applicant must be com pleted by the first week of July of the ir PGY -III year. Submission of the licensing packet to the NJSBME will occur the first week of the PGY -III year. The Program Director may request proof of this submission via receipt from the NJSBME. Inspira Health Psychiatry Residency Handbook 51 2. The resident must holdafull medical license in New Jersey by October 15 of their PGY -III year. Failure to obtain licensure may result in delay of completion of the residency sincealicense is requir ed for outpatient training and the resident is required to provide 12 months of continuous outpatient careto graduate. 3. A copy of the New Jersey State medical license as well andacopy of Federal DEA and CDS licensesmust be submitted to the Program Manager /Department Administrator. As renewals are obt ained, copies must be submitted accordingly. Inspira Health Psychiatry Residency Handbook 52 RESID ENCY PROGRAM - DETAILS Professional Demeanor - Dress Code In addition to demonstratingthe skill and judgment necessary to provide patient care during clinical rotations, the resident will demonstrate academic honesty, professional decorum, and ethical behavior during all interactions with colleagues, staff, and patients. As the resident assumes greater levels of responsibility throughout the training program, they will developahigh degree of responsibility that may be carried forward into pra ctice. All residents are expected to comply with all institutional and program policies in their conduct, attendance, and availability. Residents are expected to conduct themselves inaprofessional manner at all times, including: 1. Abiding by the By -Laws, Rule and Regulations, Policies and Procedures of the Resi dency Training Program, ROWAN -SOM, Inspira Health, the Department, the medical center s, the medical staff, the New Jersey Department of Health, NJSBME, and the Code of Ethics of the American Osteopat hic Association as they currently exist and as theymay be amended from time to time 2. Accepting patient care and on -call responsibilities (not to exceed the CIR contract limit) as assigned by the Chief of Service, Chief Resident, or Program Director 3. Compl eting medical records promptly in accordance with accepted standards of documentation (see Section 7 for Documentation Guidelines for Medical Records) 4. Maintaining high professional standards of dress and behavior. Appropriate male attire includes shirt with tie, trousers (not blue jeans), andawhite lab coat with nametag and identification badge while in the hospital. Appropriate female attire includes dresses, skirts or slacks with tops, andawhite lab coat with nametag and identificat ion badge while in the hospital. Call Schedules and Responsibility for Each P atient’s C are Call schedules are sent to all trainees and faculty prior to the beginning of the month relating the name of the attending responsible for after -hours patient care. These schedules are also posted on the inpatient unit and are also locatedwith the call service for all institutions. Protocols - Common Circumstances Requiring Faculty Involvement Attendingswill be available for immediate consultation at all times. Attendingswill provide residentswith their preferred contact method at the time of orientation. Attendingswill notify residentsof backup attendingsin the event of expected absences from the service. In the event of an unexpected absence of an attending, the Pr ogram Director should be notified. Common circumstances requiring faculty involvement include but are not limited to unexpected events such as patient suicidal behavior, medical codes, missing patients, medical deterioration, need to transfer patients tohigher level of care, patient abuse, or severe drug interactions. High -risk patients with complicated medical or behavioral issues should also have attending involvement. Inspira Health Psychiatry Residency Handbook 53 Protocol - When Residents Remain on Duty beyond Scheduled Hours On their own initiative, residents may remain beyond their scheduled period of duty to continue to provide care toasingle patient. Justifications are limited to reasons of required continuity foras everely ill or unstable patient or ethical attention to the needs ofapatient or family. Under those circumstances, the resident must appropriately hand over the care of all other patients to the team respon sible for their continuing care and document the reasons for remaining tocare for the patient in question. That doc umentation must be submit ted in every circumstance to the Program D irector. The Program D irector must review eachsubmission of additional service and track both individual resident and program -wide episodes of extended duty. Didactics All didactics are mandatory for residents to attend. Residents are expected to attendam inimum of 8 0% of mandatory didactics. As special circumstancesoccur, trainees must notify the Program Director prior to the didactics in order to be excused for personal reasons. T he resident must participate in all scheduled lectures, conferences, and other academic programs unless absent for vacation, conference, or sick leave. Residents should complete all assigned readings. Ifafaculty member feels thataresident has not participated successfully, that resident will be referred to the Program Director who will, with the Residency Training Committee, develop an individualized remediation plan. This plan will be presented to the resident and monitored bythe Program Director. The Program Director will determine the resident’s successful completion of this remediation process. Didactics are considered protected time and held every Wednesday, from 8 am – 12 pm unless otherwise specified. When didactics are virtual - residents are still expected to be ataclinical site listening and participating in it. If for any reason, didactics are cancelled and/or not scheduled onagiven day, residents are expected to report to their clinical service asaregular work day unless told otherwise by the Program Director. Annual Resident In-Service Examinations The residentswill take the Psychiatry Resident in Training Exam (PRITE ) each fall. Resident will have access to question banks and be assigned questions periodically to help prepare for the PRITE. Resident Administrative Responsibilities The resident will assume all administrative responsibilities, including but not limited to on -call, preparation of reports, arranging for coverage if unavailable, andfollowing all policies of Inspira Health, the Department of Psychiatry, and all its affiliates. Any deviation will be investigated for possible disciplinary action by the Program Director in accor dance with all applicable Inspira and departmental policies, the CIR contract, and the corrective action policy. Resident Logs Residents log all cases seen on all rotations, inpatient and outpatient, using cumulative log forms provided by the training program. Residents will maintainalist of their outpatients using the patient log spreadsheet. Logs are to be turned at the compl etion of each rotation to the Program Director or Program Manager. Inspira Health Psychiatry Residency Handbook 54 Scholarly Activity Requirement Residents must writeascientific paper of publishable quality asarequirement for graduation from the Psychiatry Residency P rogram. Residents are provided with opportunities to conduct research projects leading to the writing ofascientific paper suitable for publica tion and are encouraged to collaborate with faculty. Residents can also present at conferences as first author or presentaGrand Rounds, along withafaculty member, in order to meet this requirement. Meetings Resident Monthly Check -in Meeting The Program Director & Program Manager will meet with each PGY class at least onceamonth, generally on Wednesdays after didactics. The purpose is to give all residents an opportunity to communicate their concerns, ask questions, or provide feedback forthe program. The program may also use this opportunity to communicate new changes that are anticipated in the coming future. All concerns raised will be addressed as best as possible at the time of when it is raised, and if not, it will be followed up andaddressed later when appropriate. Residents will be expected to attend this meeting barring an excused absence. Other Program/Institution Committee Meetings Residents are expected to partake in various committees including but not limited to: GMEC, PEC, SWOT analysis, etc. Residents interested in such committees should communicate their specific interests to the PD and then one can be assigned as deemed appropriate. Moonlighting/ Outside Employment Residents may be permitted to moonlight at the discre tion of the Program Director and accord ing to Inspira Health & the psychiatry department policies on outside employment. Residents wishing to moonlight must meet minimum criteria including being at leastaPGYIII Psychiatry Resident, having all appropriate licenses, andmust complete and submit the appropriate request form. The resident may not moonlight for institutions that are in direct competi tion with their insti tutions. Moonlighting may not interfere with the resident’s clinical duties and didactic responsibilities. Resident ’s performance will be monitored for the effects of moonlighting activities, and adverse effects (including rotation evaluations ) may lead to the withdrawal of permission. All clinical activity will be calculated into the duty hour 80 -hour work week mandate. Out of System Rotations Currently, no out of system rotations are permitted for Psychiatry residents. Only rotations required to meet AOA training requirements that cannot be met within the ROWAN -SOM / Inspira Health system may be approved. Prior to developing the rotation schedule each year, the Program Di rector will submit to Graduate Medical Education Office, the appropriate request and justification for any required rotation(s) that cannotbe accommodated within the ROWAN -SOM/ Inspira Health system. No exceptions will be made. Electives At the discretion of the Program Direct or, residents may substitute elective/selective rotations for some part -time rotations during the PGY-III year. Residents should contact the Program Director to discuss the desired rotations prior to the start of the assigned rotation. No selective/electi ve rotations will be approved outside the ROWAN - SOM/ Inspira Health at this time. Inspira Health Psychiatry Residency Handbook 55 Vacation and Holidays Residents receive time off for vacation and holidays in accordance with the ir employee contract. In order to schedule vacation or other time off, reside nts must coordinate with their colleagues on service as well as their rotation supervisor /attending and let them know about all vacation days prior to submission to the Program Director for their signature. Vacation days must be approved by the supervising attending on service and the Program Director. For rotations such as Adult Inpatient & CL, it is the responsibility of the requesting resident to coordinate with their co -resident on service to ensure at least 1 trainee remains on service with the attending. This is crucial in preventing disruptions to clinical care and education of medical students who work closely with residents. Once this is confirmed, the requesting resident can then seek permission from the supervising attending on se rvice. For the Internal Medicine rotation, it is the responsibility of the requesting resident to get approval from the Chief Resident of IM first, before submitting to the Program Director and Program Manager. All requests should be made at least 2 mont hs prior to the requested time off, to ensure cross coverage can be arranged. Residents should take no more than 1 week off per rotation month, however if they have 2 continuous months of the same rotation, they can take up to 2 weeks off. If the resident is onarotation where their attending is off for any period of time (not including hospital holidays), and there is no other attending covering (i.e. APN providing clinical care instead), the resident must immediately notify the PD/PM so they can be plac ed on an alternative service temporarily. Faculty days off do not always correlate with resident days off; therefore this must be communicated with the program. Ifaresident takesaday off without prior approval, they can be retroactively dockedaPTO dayby the program and subject to other consequences. Leaves Sick leave In accordance with your contract, employees are credited with sick leave days at the beginning of each academic year. When calling in sick or late, the resident is to notify Sharon Me ad Kates, the Program Manager, who maintains the attendance records forresidents, the outpatient office, their clinical service, and the Program Director. If the resident is unable to make all of these calls, the resident should call his or her co -resident or the Chief Resident, who will be responsible for making the calls. The Pro gram Director reserves the right to request that the resident provide medical documentation for sick leave if out for three (3) consecutive business days and after the third occurrence of sick leave during one academic year. Occurrence is defined as anyperiod of time taken for sick leave. The Program Director with the Psychiatry Education Committee reserve the right not to award academic credit if the resident has taken excessive leave during any given rotation. Inspira Health Psychiatry Residency Handbook 56 Other leave Medical, maternity, disabilit y, and family leaves may be taken in accordance with FMLA, New Jersey State Law, and yourcontract and Interim Agreement. Residents should consult their contract, Interim Agreement, and applicable Inspira & Psychiatry Department policies. Additional information about policies may be found in the Department office, through Human Resourc es, or the institution’s website. Residency Certificates In accordance with the Residency Training Requirements of the ACGME & AOA,acertificate will be awarded to each resident upon satisfactory completion of the residency program and fulfillment of all program, department al, and institutional requirements. Additional Resident Responsibilities Chief Resident Responsibilities The Chief Resident(s) assists the Program Director and program staff in achieving the educational objectives of the training program by serving asarole model and asaliaison with other residents. The Chief Resident also performsspecific assigned organizati onal and administrative duties, which include creating and monitoring the on-call schedule s, providing for emergency or other coverage as needed, participating in the orientation of new residents, and other related duties as assigned. The Chief Resident(s) reports to the Program Dir ector, Department Chair, and other staff on matters of department policy or procedure and patient care or educat ion within the training program. They assist in transmitting all pertinent information to the residents. The Chief Resident(s) reviews and enfo rces compliance with standards of conduct and professional demeanor among members of the resident staff. Representing all residents, they attend quarterly full departmental faculty meetings. They also serve on the Residency Training Committee and the Psych iatry Education Committee. The Chief Resident(s) may also bring issues, problems, or concerns to the attention of the Program Director or other appropriate service chief or administrator. Disciplinary problems and due process matters are handled in acco rdance with established institution’s policies and the ir contract. Student & Intern Teaching Residents are expectedto actively participate in ROWAN -SOM / Inspira teaching programs, including teaching students and interns assigned to service. In addition to constructively teaching from available clinical resources, residents assist in teaching clinical interviewing to second, third, and fourth year medical studentsand PGY-I trainees in both Psychiatry and other specialties as needed. PGY -IV residents may elect to lecture to medical students in the Brain and Behavior Block of the Pre -Clerkship Curriculum. Residents also participate in community - based educational pr ograms and make presentations in case conferences and seminars that are part of the didactic program. Documentation Guidelines for Medical Records Residents’ patient care responsibilities include proper documentation of patient assessment, care, education, and treatment activities. The documentation elements assessed by JCAHO Medical Record review follow immediately in this section of the handbook. Inspira Health Psychiatry Residency Handbook 57 Copies of the New Jersey Screening Document and Clinical Certificates for Involuntary Commitment for adultsand minors are included after the documentation guidelines. Evaluations Rotation evaluations The resident will complete all assigned rotations. The resident will be evaluated onamonthly basis on each rotation. The resident will have the opportunityto review all evaluations. PGY -III and above residents will also be evaluated annually by each outpatient/community mental health center supervisor. Any resident who does not passarotation or is felt unqualified byasupervisor will be referred to the Prog ram Director, who will, with the Residency Training Committee, develop an individualized remediation plan. This plan will be presented to the resident and moni tored by the Program Director. The Program Director will determine the resident’s successful completion of this remediation process. 360o evaluations In an effort to capture 360o degree evaluation of the residents, each resident will be evaluated by nursing staff/support staff quarterly each year. The residents will also perform peer -to-peer evaluations on other residents twiceayear. Program evaluations Residents will evaluate the residency program onceayear. Self-assessment Residents will also evaluate themselves using the self -assessment evaluation form. Inspira Health Psychiatry Residency Handbook 58 Leadership Opportunities: Wellness Chair • Promote resident physician wellness and camaraderie through bi -annual retreats and monthly/regular social events • Research and order spirit wear for the program to facilitate resident unity and foster supportive environment • Communicate with residents regularly to assess and gage wellness concerns and discuss with chief resident, program director, and coordinator Recruitment Committee : • Participate in meet and greets during each interview day during interview season • This committee contributesin the collaborative review of each applicant • Additionally, working to cultivate interest in our residency program at recruit ment events throughout the year. NJPA Program Representative • Liaise between the NJPA and training program • Share NJPA resident programming and service information with colleagues and Program Directors • Encourage membership by detailing benefits of and the impact organized psychiatry has on the profession and patients • Assist with planning and promoting the annual Psychiatrist in Service event • Collaborate on development of programs for recommendation to the NJPA Board of Trustees and implement once approv ed GMEC Resident Representative • Representatives are responsible for attending each of the quarterly scheduled GMEC meetings • Representatives are the “voice” of their respective trainees and as such should facilitate discussion among all the trainees in the ir program year; • They should identify issues to share with the program leadership and/or the GMEC and ensure confidentiality where appropriate • Representatives should not serve continuous terms, in order to allow other residents to have an opportunityto serve in this position as well Inspira Health Psychiatry Residency Handbook 59 TEACHING AIDS AND LIBRARY RESOURCES Our students, residents, and fellows haveawide variety of resources available to them through the ROWAN -SOM Health Sciences Library. The Library’s collection is comprised of books, journals, media, and software in the basic and clinical sciences in suppo rt of both undergraduate and graduate medical education. An extensive collection of electronic, evidence -based resources has been developed to assist house staff in accessing information 24 hoursaday, 7 daysaweek, regardless of location. Information on all mental health topics is available through sources such as Psychiatry Online, PsycInfo, PsycArticles, and via the wide variety ofe-books ande-journals which the library licenses. Various point -of-care resource “apps” are available for download to mob ile devices. A professional reference service is available Monday through Friday. A full range of library services is provided by the library staff to aid house staff in obtaining information. Mediated literature searches are available for those workingon research projects or for patient care issues. In addition to Medline and other biomedical databases, library staff can provide searches of databases in psychology, psychiatry, social sciences, and the humanities. Residents are also encouraged to do theirown literature searches using any of the searching options that the Library has available; training is available and may be scheduled with library staff. In addition, the bibliographic reference management program, EndNote, is available to be downloaded by fellows, residents, students, and faculty at no charge. Interlibrary loan isaservice provided to obtain those journal articles or books which are not held inalibrary's collection or available online. Electronic delivery of documents is available for any article requested. You can accessafull and comprehensive list of Psychiatry textbooks at the ROWAN -SOM library website at https://www.lib.rowan.edu/som. Inspira Health Psychiatry Residency Handbook 60 Inspira Health Psychiatry Residency Handbook 61 Inspira Health Network House Manual Academic Year 2023 -2024 Nothing in the policies contained in this Manual shall be construed to constituteacontract. Inspira Health Network at its discretion, may change, delete, suspend, or discontinue parts or the policy in its entirety, at any time without prior notice. In the event ofapolicy change, residents will be notified. Any such action shall apply to existing as well as to future residents.Pa ge 1 of 3 TABLE OF CONTENTS SECTION I: INTRODUCTION WELCOME NEW RESIDENTS DESCRIPTION AND PURPOSE OF THE GRADUATE MEDICAL EDUCATION MANUAL SECTION II: POLICY PROCEDURES GME.01 OVERSIGHT AND PARTICIPATING S ITES GME.02 GRADUATE M E DICAL EDUCATION COMMITTEE ( GMEC) GME.03 MISSION, VISIONS AND VALUES I NSPIRA HEALTH NE TWORK CO DE OF CO NDUCT CC v4 GME.04 PROFESSIONALISM INSPIRA HEALTH NE TWORK S OCIAL MEDICAL ( P R) P OLICY GME.05 PROGRAM O V ERVIEW GME.06 MEDICAL RE CORDS CO M PLETION GME.07 EQUAL T RAINING O PPORTUNITY, DI VERSITY & DI SABILITY ACCOMMODATIONS GME.08 ELIGIBILITY AND SELECTION OF RE SIDENTS GME.09 NON- COMPETE POLICY GME.10 RESIDENT T RANSFERS GME.11 PRE -EMPLOYMENT P H YSICAL, O RIENTATION, AND RESPIRATORY FIT T EST GME.12 SUPERVISION OF RE SIDENTS GME.1 3 COMMUNICATION GME.14 RESIDENT G RIEVANCES ( IN REVISION) GME.15 EDUCATION/DIDACTICS GME.16 CORE CO MPETENCY COMPLIANCE, M ILESTONES, AND EVALUATIONS GME.17 THE RESIDENT LEARNING AND WORK ENVIRONMENT GME.19 MOONLIGHTING POLICY FOR TRAINEE GME.20 RESIDENT WE LLNESS: RE SIDENT F ATIGUE AWA RENESS AND PREVENTION REQUIRED ON- LINE L EARNING M O DULES GME.21 RESPONSIBILITIES OF TH E RESIDENT/FELLOW S TAFF GME.22 SCHEDULES GME.23 GENERAL M EDICAL R ULES AND REGULATIONS P age 2 of 3 TABLE OF CONTENTS GME.24 PHYSICIAN IMPAIRMENT GME.25 INFORMAL MEDICAL CARE GME.26 PROFESSIONAL LIABILITY GME.27 LICENSURE GME.28 STIPENDS, MEALS, AND PAYCHECK GME.29 HEALTH INSURANCE GME.30 LACTATION SUPPORT GME.32 BADGES SEC.1 IDENTIFICATION BADGES GME.33 HOUSING GME.35 LAUNDRY AND DRESS CODE GME.36 MONETARY GIFTS GME.37 PARKING GME.38 RESIDENT LOUNGE/ON-CALL SUITE GME.40 RECORDS RETENTION GME.41 PERFORMANCE IMPROVEMENT GME.43 RESIDENT USE OF EDUCATIONAL GRANT MONEY GME.44 TIME AWAY FROM RESIDENCY POLICY GME.50 TIME AWAY FROM RESIDENCY-EXTENDED LEAVE OF ABSENCE GME.54 CONFIDENTIALITY, IMMUNITY AND REALEASES GME.55 RESIDENT REQUEST FOR PROGRAM DIRECTOR’S LETTER GME.56 PROGRAM CLOSURE OR REDUCTION REQUIREMENTS GME.57 DISASTER RESPONSE POLICY GME.58 GUIDELINES FOR PROMOTION, NON-PROMOTION, DISMISSAL AND RESIGNATION GME.59 GRANTING OF CERTIFICATE-LETTER OF COMPLETION OF GME PROGRAM GME.60 HOUSESTAFF CODE OF CONDUCT GME.61 HIPAA AND EMTALA GME.63 CASE/PROCEDURE LOGS HR.05 ANTI-HARASSMENT AND NON-DISCRIMINATION Pa ge 3 of 3 TABLE OF CONTENTS SECTION III: TIP SHEETS AND RESOURCE INFORMATION INTELLIGENT OBSERVATION ( IO) TIP SHEET TIP S HEET – EXPENSE DELEGATION COMMON ACRONYMS/ABBREVIATIONS US ED I N GRADUATE M EDICAL E DUCATION EMERGENCY CODES SENIOR-L EADERSHIP-O RG-C HART-11 MH HOSPITAL DEPARTMENTS FAX NUMBERS MH HOSPITAL EXTENSIONS INSPIRA MEDICAL CENTER - ELMER POINTS OF INTEREST DIRECTORY INSPIRA MEDICAL CENTER - MULLICA HILL POINTS OF INTEREST DIRECTORY INSPIRA MEDICAL CENTER - VINELAND POINTS OF INTEREST DIRECTORY Welcome new Residents! On behalf of the administration, faculty, and your residents, I welcome you to Inspira Health Network and wish you every success here. We believe that each resident contributes directly to the Inspira Health Network growth and success, and we hope you will take pride in beingamember of our team. Th is manual was developed to describe some of the expectations of our residents and to outline the policies, programs, and benefits available to them. Residents should familiarize themselves with the contents of this manual as soon as possible, for it will answermany questions about residency training with Inspira Health Network. We hope that your experience here will be challenging, enjoyable, and rewarding. Again, welcome! Sincerely, Mi chael J Geria, DO, MS, FACOOG (dist), Vice-President of Academic Affairs/Designated Institutional Officer Description and Purpose of the Graduate Medical Education Manual For the purposes of this manual, the term resident will be used here to indicate intern, resident, or fellow. This isageneral manual which applies to all residency programs sponsored by Inspira Health Network. Each individual program will haveaprogram specific manual to address program specific issues. No individual Program Manual may supersede this Manual. The residency programs sponsored by Inspira Health Network are accredited by the ACGME, and the CPME. Policies specific to one accrediting body are labeled as such. GRADUATE MEDICAL EDUCATION POLICY AND PROCEDURE TITLE: Oversight and Participating Sites NO: GME.01 ORIGINATING SOURCE: Graduate Medical Education EFFECTIVE DATE : 05/15/2023 EXECUTIVE APPROVALS: Michael J. Geria, DO, MS, FACOOG (Dist) Vice President of Academic Affairs/DIO PERSONNEL: SUPERSEDES: 03/07/2022 07/01/2020 Interns Residents Fellows LOCATIONS : Page: 1 of 7 Vineland Mullica Hill Elmer Bridgeton Woodbury COMMITTEE APPROVALS: N/A I.POLICY: OversightIt is the policy of Inspira Health Network that oversight of all Graduate Medical Education programs is the responsibility of the Vice-President of Academic Affairs. Day to day administration of the programs will be the responsibility of the program directors of each specialty program. T he Vice-President of Academic Affairs will be accountable to the Chief Executive Officer of Inspira Health Network, and will be responsible for ensuring compliance with ACGME, and CPME guidelines, as well as requirements of the State of New Jersey. The Vice-President of Academic Affairs will collaborate with the CMO and COOs of all Inspira Health Network Hospitals. T he Vice-President of Academic Affairs will also function as the chair of the Graduate Medical Educati on C ommittee (GMEC). In doing so, the Vice-President of Academic Affairs will ensure that the GMEC adequately performs its monitoring and advisory functions. T he Vice-President of Academic Affairs will also ensure that allinterdepartmental and interinstitutional agreements are in compliance with the educational goals of the ACGME, CPME, and Inspira Health Network. Pa rticipating SitesA participating site is an organization providing educational experiences or educational assignments/rotations for residents. Th ere will beaPLA (Program Letter of Agreement) in place between the program and eachparticipating site that will govern the relationship between the program and the participating site providing the required assignment/s. Please see the Procedure section of this document. II.F ORMS/ATTACHMENTS:Program Letter if Agreement III.E QUIPMENT/SUPPLIES:N/A Oversight and Participating Sites GME:01 Page 2 of 7 IV.PROCEDURE: PLA (Program Letter of Agreement) in place between the program This PLA will:1.Be renewed at least every 10 years.2. Be approved by the Vice-President of Academic Affairs/DIO.3.Ensure that each participating site hasadesignated faculty member, who will be held accountable forresident education at that site, in collaboration with the program directors. V.RE FERENCES: A ccreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education, Institutional Requirements: Revision September 26, 2021; effective July 1, 2022 The Council on Podiatric Medical Education (CPME), CPME 330, Procedures for Approval of Podiatric Residencies: April 2022Oversight and Participating Sites GME:01 Page 3 of 7 Attachment: PROGRAM LETTER OF AGREEMENT This Program Letter of Agreement (this “PLA”) is between Inspira Medical Centers, Inc. (“Sponsoring Institution”) and _____ (“Participating Site”) involved in Graduate Medical Education of medical residents/fellows. 1. Parties1.1 Sponsoring Institution: Inspira Medical Center Vineland, 1505 W. Sherman Ave., Vineland, NJ 08360 Inspira Medical Center Mullica Hill, 700 Mullica Hill Road, Mullica Hill, NJ 08062 1.2 Participating Site: Name and Address 2.Faculty Responsible for Education and Supervision2.1 Sponsoring Institution: Program Director 2.2 Participating Site: Site Director 2.3 (If other faculty are involved, list by name or group) T he above-named individuals are responsible for the education and supervision of the residents/fellows while rotating at the Participating Site. If this responsibility is assumed by another individual, the program director will receive prior notification in writing forapproval of the successor. 3.Faculty Teaching, Supervision, and Evaluation Responsibilities 3.1 The faculty at Participating Site must provide appropriate supervision of residents/fellows in patient care activities and maintainalearning environment conducive to educating the residents/fellows in the ACGME competency areas. The faculty must evaluate resident performance inatimely manner during each rotation or similar educational assignment and document this evaluation at completion of the assignment. 3.2 It is understood that Sponsoring Institution continues to have responsibility for the quality of this educational experience and must retain authority over the residents ’ activities. Sponsoring Institution has the right to conduct an on-site review of the training policies and practices relevant to this training. Oversight and Participating Sites GME:01 Page 4 of 7 4.Content and Duration of the Educational Experiences4.1 The Educational Goals and Objectives of the educational experiences are set forth on the attached Attachment A and have been developed according to ACGME Residency/Fellowship Program Requirements. 4.2 In cooperation with Program Director, Site Director and the faculty at Participating Site are responsible for the day-to-day activities of the Residents/Fellows to ensure that the outlined goals and objectives are met during the course of the educational experiences at Participating Site. 4.3 Residents will rotate in insert duration e.g. one month, 6 weeks, etc. blocks, as scheduled by the Program Director and on site coordinator. Prior notice, when possible, will be made for any changes in these rotations. (you may insert more specifics in terms of numbers of residents and blocks if appropriate) 5.Policies and Procedures that Govern Resident Education 5.1 Residents/Fellows will be under the general direction of the Sponsoring Institution Program’spolicies and procedures regarding educational matters, which are incorporated herein by reference, and the site-specific policies, rules and regulations regarding patient care activities for the Participating Site. 5.2 This training will be in compliance with the requirements for duty hours and resident supervision requirements of the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education. 6.Financial Responsibility (Select one of the three options below) Sponsoring Institution Responsible Financially Sponsoring Institution shall continue to employ the R esidents/Fellows and is responsible for the payment of any salary and compensation to the Residents/Fellows, as well as providing or requiring health insurance coverage and workers compensation coverage, and withholding all applicable taxes. Sponsoring Institution understands that its Residents/Fellows will not be covered by or entitled to any social security, unemployment compensation, retirement, pension and/or any other benefits programs or workers’ compensation program offered or provided by Participating Site, and no Resident/Fellow shall have any right, title or claim to participate in the same. Agreement to any additional sharing of expenses for any specific rotation shall be set forth in Exhibit A, attached or as follows: none. Or Participating Site Responsible Financially Sponsoring Institution shall continue to employ the R esidents/Fellows and is responsible for the payment of any salary and compensation to the Residents/Fellows, as well as providing or requiring health insurance coverage and workers compensation coverage, and withholding all applicable taxes. Sponsoring Institution understands that its Residents/Fellows will not be covered by or entitled to any social security, unemployment compensation, retirement, pension and/or any other benefits programs or Oversight and Participating Sites GME:01 Page 5 of 7 workers’ compensation program offered or provided by Participating Site, and no R esident/Fellow shall have any right, title or claim to participate in the same. Since Sponsoring Institution cannot claim the Residents/Fellows on its cost report for graduate medical education reimbursement from the CMS, the Participating Site shall reimburse Sponsoring Institution for the applicable pro rata portion of any Resident’s/Fellow’s salary and benefits. Sponsoring Institution may provide the Participating Site an invoice for payment, which shall be paid by Participating Site within thirty (30) days of the date of such invoice. Any additional expenses for any specific Rotation shall be set forth in Exhibit ___, attached. Or Financial Responsibility Sponsoring Institution and Participating Site agree to the following terms regarding cost sharing with respect to costs associated with the education of Residents/Fellows: none. 7.Term and Termination7.1 This PLA shall be effective for an initial term of 10 years starting _____. Either party may terminate this PLA on ninety (90) days’ written notice. 7.2 In the event this PLA is terminated by the Participating Site, all R esidents/Fellows assigned to the Participating Site through the end of the current academic year (defined as July 1st thru June 30th) will be allowed to complete assigned rotations and all financial terms as defined above will remain in place. Furthermore, if such termination occurs after the deadline for match quota change in the National Residency Matching Program, this PLA be continued in full for the subsequent academic year. 8.Insurance and Indemnification8.1 Each party agrees to maintain at its own expense commercial general liability insurance withminimum limits of $1,000,000 per occurrence and $2,000,000 annual aggregate, and professional liability insurance with minimum limits of $1,000,000 per occurrence and $3,000,000 annual aggregate covering itself, its employees, and agents and, as to the Sponsoring Institution, its Residents/Fellows against any and all claims from damages arising by reason of personal injury, death, or damage to persons or property in connection with the performance of its duties and responsibilities under this PLA. If the professional liability insurance is ona"claims made" basis, then appropriate tail coverage shall be purchased forclaims, demands, or actions reported in future years for acts or omissions during the term of this PLA. Each party will provide certificate(s) of insurance evidencing such coverage upon request. 8.2 The policies required hereunder will not be canceled reduced or modified except after thirty (30) days written notice to the other party. 8.3 To the extent permitted by law, each party agrees to indemnify and hold the other parties harmless from and against any and all costs, expenses, claims, demands, causes of action, liabilities, and responsibilities to the extent arising out of or in any way connected with any negligent or willful act or omission of such party and their respective employees, directors, faculty, students, or agents in the performance of this PLA. In no event will any party be liable hereunder (whether in an action in negligence, contract, or tort or based onawarranty or Oversight and Participating Sites GME:01 Page 6 of 7 otherwise) for any indirect, incidental, special or consequential damages incurred by another party or any third party, even if the party has been advised of the possibility ofsuch damages. This Section 8 shall survive the termination or expiration of this PLA. 9.Environment9.1 Participating Site will provideasuitable environment at its premises for educational experiences for Residents/Fellows in accordance with mutually agreed upon educational objectives and guidelines. Participating Site will provide an orientation for each Resident/Fellow with respect to its applicable policies and procedures, patient rights, and general safety forits premises. Participating Site will permit the authority responsible for accreditation of Sponsoring Institution’s curriculum to evaluate for consistency with institutional purpose, vision, values and mission the premises, services and all other items provided by Participating Site upon reasonable advance notice. 9.2 Participating Site will provide the facilities, equipment, and supplies which are necessary to achieve the educational objectives of the rotation and which may be required by federal and/or state law and regulations. Participating Site will provide all necessary personal protective equipment for Residents/Fellows while assigned to Participating Site’s premises in compliance with OSHA Blood-Borne Pathogen Regulations and the Nuclear Regulatory Commis sion, as appropriate. 9.3 Participating Site will assume no responsibility for the medical treatment of Residents, with the exception of first aid required while on Participating Site’s premises. Participating Site will, however, provide access to emergency medical care to Residents/Fellows who become ill or injured while on any of Participating Site’s premises, if available at such facility. Residents/Fellows are responsible for their health care costs if medical care or treatment is necessary. 9.4 In the event ofaResident’s/Fellow’s accidental exposure to blood or bodily fluids, Participating Site shall, at the Resident’s/Fellow’s expense, (a) test Resident/Fellow in accordance with Participating Site’s policy regarding such exposure; (b) assess potential risks and secure, if necessary, permission andablood sample from Resident’s/Fellow’s for testing, and secure medication required for emergency treatment of high risk exposures; and (c ) report any occurrence of accidental exposure involving Resident’s/Fellow’s to Sponsoring Institution. 9.5 In performing their respective obligations pursuant to this PLA, no party shall discriminate against any patient, Resident/Fellow, student, or employee on the basis of age, sex, sexual orientation, race, creed, color, national origin, religion, disability, health status, ability to pay, participation inaprepaid health care plan, publicly funded plan, or any other health insurance carrier, or any other protected class. Oversight and Participating Sites GME:01 Page 7 of 7 10.General10.1 In the performance of their obligations under this PLA, the parties will comply with allapplicable laws and regulations. 10.2 Each party represents to the other party that it and its officers, directors, and employees (a) are not currently excluded, debarred, or otherwise ineligible to participate in any federal health care programs or any state health care programs; and (b) have not been convicted ofacriminal offense related to the provision of healthcare items or services where such conviction would result in any such party being excluded, debarred, or otherwise declared ineligible to participate in the federal health care programs or any state health care programs. Any breach of this paragraph shall give either party the right to terminate this PLA immediately. 10.3 All disputes relating to or arising under this PLA shall be resolved according to the laws of the State of New Jersey, without regard to its conflict of laws principles. 10.4 Each party agrees that it and its officers, employees, and agents, affiliates and subsidiaries shall not otherwise use the name, or any part thereof, logo or symbol, of the other party, or any component of the other party, in any publication, advertising, publicity, or fundraising, without the prior written approval by the other party. 10.5 No person or entity notaparty to this PLA is intended to beathird-party beneficiary under this PLA. 10.6 Any modifications or changes to this PLA must be in writing and signed by all parties. 10.7 This PLA may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be deemed to be an original as against any party whose signature appears thereon, and all of which shall together constitute one instrument, and may be delivered via facsimile or electronic transmission. I N WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Program Letter of Agreement to be executed by their duly authorized representatives. S PONSORING INSTITUTION: PARTICIPATING SITE: INSPIRA MEDICAL CENTERS, INC. ___________________ B y: ________________________________ By: _________________________________ Name: Name: Title: Title: D ate: _____________________________ Date: ______________________________ GRADUATE MEDICAL EDUCATION POLICY AND PROCEDURE TITLE: Graduate Medical Education Committee (GMEC) NO: GME.02 ORIGINATING SOURCE: Graduate Medical Education Effective Date: 05/24/2023 EXECUTIVE APPROVALS: Michael J. Geria, DO, MS, FACOOG (Dist) Vice President of Academic Affairs/DIO PERSONNEL: Supersedes: 03/07/2022 07/01/2020 Faculty Residents Interns Fellows LOCATIONS: Page: 1 of 2 Vineland Mullica Hill Elmer Bridgeton Woodbury COMMITTEE APPROVALS: N/A I.PURPOSE:The Graduate Medical Education Committee (GMEC) of Inspira Health Network isadelegation of physiciansand other key individuals, which retains responsibility for monitoring the quality of resident education, as welladvising the Vice-President of Academic Affairs regarding administration of GME. Committee membershipwill be comprised of the Vice-President of Academic Affairs who will chair the committee, Chief MedicalOfficer from each Inspira site, or his/her designee, program directors of each specialty training program, the director of the resident research program, faculty and administrative representatives, and residentrepresentatives appointed by their peers. II.FORMS/ATTACHMENTS:None III. EQUIPMENT/SUPPLIES:None IV. POLICY:This policy describes the functions of the GMEC, including committee charges, meeting logistics, membership,subcommittees, and applicable requirements. The GMEC performs all functions as required by the ACGME,including but not limited to: Oversight:1.The GMEC will establish, approve, and implement policies and procedures related to residentand student education, as well as regulation of work environment for all residents and students at Inspira Health Network.2.The GMEC will annually review resident resources and benefits, including but not limited tostipends and funding for licensure fees, conference attendance fees, and examination fees.3. The GMEC will oversee resident duty hours, in compliance with ACGME, and CPME programrequirements, and will develop and implement processes through which compliance will bemonitored.4. The GMEC will develop and implement policies for the selection, evaluation, promotion, andtermination of residents, in compliance with ACGME, and CPME, and institutional guidelines. The Committee will also conduct reviews of resident misconduct when applicable and takeappropriate action.5.The GMEC will review correspondence with program accreditation agencies and will developaction plans to address areas of concern.6.The GMEC will periodically perform internal reviews of each program and document Graduate Medical Education Committee GME:02 Page 2 of 2 assessments of the programs’ compliance with ACGME, and CPME, and institutional guidelines. V. PROCEDURE:Meeting Logistics : •Frequency of meetings: quarterly•Minutes from GMEC meetings will be approved by the Chair of the Committee and will be maintainedby the Program Manager in the GME office. •Location:  Remote (e.g., Microsoft Teams, etc.)  In-person meetings may be scheduled as needed. •Attendee: GME Voting members May include guests invited by the committee chair•Agenda: The agenda is set by the committee Chair. Program directors, administrators, and GMEC membersmay request to add items to the agenda two weeks prior toagiven meeting (or at the discretion of the committee Chair). A tentative agenda and related materials are emailed to committee members prior to each meeting. oSome committee business items may be added to the consent agenda at the discretion of thecommittee Chair. Any materials related to these items should be emailed to committee members in advance of each meeting. Any member of the committee may move duringameeting to remove an item from the consent agenda and add it to the discussion agenda. Membership: •The GME voting members Vice-President of Academic Affairs – Committee Chair: DI O Chief Medical Officers from each Inspira site (or Designee) Program Directors of each Specialty Training Director of Resident Research Program Faculty Administrative Representatives Peer-selected resident representativeVI. REFERENCES:Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education, Institutional Requirements: Revision September 26,2021; effective July 1, 2022. The Council on Podiatric Medical Education (CPME), CPME 330, Procedures for Approval of Podiatric Residencies: April 2022GRADUATE MEDICAL EDUCATION POLICY AND PROCEDURE TITLE: Mission, Visions, and Values NO: GME.03 ORIGINATING SOURCE: Graduate Medical Education Effective Date: EXECUTIVE APPROVALS: Michael J. Geria, DO, MS, FACOOG (Dist) Vice President of Academic Affairs/DIO PERSONNEL: Supersedes: 03/07/2022 07/01/2020 Interns Residents Fellows LOCATIONS : Page: 1 of 1 Vineland Mullica Hill Elmer Bridgeton Woodbury COMMITTEE APPROVALS: N/A I.PURPOSE:The purpose of the Graduate Medical Education (GME) Office at Inspira Health Network is to provide astructured framework for all the educational programs to guide andsupervise resident/fellow physicians. Our goal is to facilitate the residents' professional and personal development fostering an environment where they can excel in service, teaching, and research while demonstrating ethical and professional methods of practice. II.FORMS/ATTACHMENTS:None III.E QUIPMENT/SUPPLIES:N/A IV.MISSION:Why we are here The Graduate Medical Education programs at Inspira Health Network are committedto pr oviding the highest quality education programs with proper mentoring of all residents, and students whilefostering intellectual curiosity and diverse learning methods. 1.T rain well-rounded physicians equipped to handle the healthcare demands of the twenty first centur y. 2. E xplore new methods of training quality physicians. 3. L earn from new research onafoundation of experience. 4. E ncourage good citizenship in the healthcare communit y. V.V ISION:Where we are headed The residency programs at Inspira Health Network will promote personal and professionalgrowth in the resident staff and will strive for excellence in patient care, medical education, and research. Residents, fellows, students, and faculty will work together to createabalanced culture of mutual educationand qua lity patient care. Our goal is to have world class residency programs that not only trains outstandingp hysicians, but defines the future practice of medicine throu gh innovation, and research. V I.VALUES:How we act:1. Display caring, sensitivity and respect in all relationships.2.Conduct ourselves in an honest, fair, and ethical manner.3. Enable patients, physicians, and staff to make responsible decisions to improve work processes.4.Build relationships with patients, community, employees, physicians, other healthcare providerstoimprove medical care and medical education.5.Pursue the highest possible clinical and service standards of excellence POLICY & PROCEDURE SUBJECT: Inspira Health Network Code of Conduct DEPT: RESIDENCY PROG - ADMIN *IHN* POLICY: Refer to: Inspira Code of Conduct CC *IHN*v.4 Effective Date: 7/1/2002 Review Date: 3/7/2022 STANDARDS OF CONDUCT The Standards of Conduct are divided into four parts: 1.Integrity in Our Business Relationships2.Integrity in Our Community Relationships3.Integrity in Our Care and Service Relationships4.Integrity in Our Workplace Relationships Inspira employees furthermore haveamandatory responsibility to report concerns inatimely manner. Inspira prohibits retribution or retaliation against anyone who in good faith reports such concerns. GRADUATE MEDICAL EDUCATION POLICY AND PROCEDURE TITLE: Professionalism NO: GME.04 ORIGINATING SOURCE: Graduate Medical Education Effective Date: 06/01/2023 EXECUTIVE APPROVALS: Michael J. Geria, DO, MS, FACOOG (Dist) Vice President of Academic Affairs/DIO PERSONNEL: Supersedes: 03/07/2022 07/01/2020 Interns Residents Fellows LOCATIONS: Page: 1 of 3 Vineland Mullica Hill Elmer Bridgeton Woodbury COMMITTEE APPROVALS: N/A I.PURPOSE:It is the professional responsibility of faculty members, and residents to arrive for work adequately rested and rea dy to care for patients. It is also the responsibility of faculty, residents, and other members of the care team to observe,intervene, and/or to escalate their concern about resident and faculty fitness for work, depending on the situati on, and in accordance with the institutional policies. Inspira Health Network, program directors, core faculty and the Vice-President of Academic Affairs ensureaculture of professionalism that supports patient safety and personal responsibility, and that residents and faculty members must demonstrate an understanding and acceptance of their personal role in support of their patients’ safety, including accurate reporting of work hours, patient outcomes, and clinical experience data. II.FORMS/ATTACHMENTS:None III. EQUIPMENT/SUPPLIES:N/A IV.POLICY:It is critically important to be aware and accountable for fitness for duty, as well as the responsibility of all residents and faculty members to display responsiveness to patient needs that supersedes self-interest. This includes the recognition that under certain circumstances, the best interests of the patient may be served by transitioning care to another qualified and rested provider. Although professionalism and ethics encompass broad concepts, some of the recognized components are (but not limited to):No n-maleficence – first, do no harmActing asapositive role modelDisplaying respect in interactions with othersLegal and ethical behaviorAppropriate management of potential conflicts of interestBeneficence –aphysician should act in the best interest of the patient/altruism/placing the needs of the patient first Professionalism GME.04 Page 2 of 3 Autonomy – the patient has the right to refuse or choose their treatmentDignity – the patient (and the medical professional involved with their care) has the right to dignity, truthfulness, and honestyParticipation in self-evaluation programs and acceptance of constructive criticism from others.Compassion, integrity, and respect for othersResponsiveness to patient needs that supersedes self -interestRespect for patient privacy and autonomyAccountability to patients, society, and the professionRespect for diverse patient population F ailure to be professional can result in disciplinary actions in accordance with our policies. V. PROCEDURE:RESIDENTS ABILITY TO REPORT UNPROFESSIONAL BEHAVIOR- ANONYMOUS (ACGME REQUIREMENT) Per the ACGME requirements: 1.Faculty members must be role models of professionalism (Core)2.Programs and Institutions should haveaprocess for education of residents and facultyregarding unprofessional behavior andaconfidential process for reporting, investigating, andaddressing such concerns. (Core)3.Program Directors must provide an environment in which residents could raise concerns and provide feedback inaconfidential manner without fear of intimidation and retaliation. (Core)4. Programs and Institutions must provideaprofessional, equitable, respectful, and civilenvironment that is free from discrimination, sexual and other forms of harassment,mistreatment, abuse, or coercions of students, residents, faculty, and staff (Core)Options for Confidential Reporting Program Director Vice-President of Academic Affairs/DIO Chief Medical Officer Human Resources Compliance Department or Hotline (see below) Inspira Corporate Compliance Web Reporting or RL6 (see below) Compliance Department 856-507-7857 Compliance Hotline Reporting 1-888-413-4313 Inspira Corporate Compliance Web Reporting https://rl6.ihn.org/RL_Production/Homecenter/Client/Login.aspx?ReturnUrl=%2fRL_Pr 1.“Corporate Compliance” 2. Then: Inspira Corporate Compliance Web Reporting 3. Then Click on: “Begin Report”Professionalism GME.04 Page 3 of 3 4. Followed by: •“Key Category” then “Medical Staff •Basic Information •Additional Details Conflicts and concerns involving physicians and patients or staff, or policy and procedure issues, contractual arrangements, and other business YES! You may submitareport regarding serious concerns or violations while remaining anonymous. The only information My Compliance Report requires foranew report is brief details regarding the concern so the company in question may begin an investigation to determine the validity of the violation. Though our servers log some data for statistical purposes, My Compliance Report is und erastrict Confidentiality Agreement with each of our clients. Therefore, only the information you provide is shared with My Compliance Report clients. If you would like to be contacted by the company you may provide your name, address, phone number or e- mail. How do I check onareport I previously filed? To follow-up onareport you have already submitted, Click here: Inspira Corporate Compliance Web Reporting, then click on the button 'Follow-Up Report' found on the homepage of MyComplianceReport.com. Enter your Report Number and password, then click 'Next'. Ifaresolution has been provided by your company it will be available. Where do I getaReport Number if I do not already have one? If you do not already haveaReport Number, but do have knowledge of serious violations, perceived or known in the work environment, you will need to createaNew Report. Once your report has been generated, you will be givenaReport Number. You will then be able to check the status of your report by logging in at MyComplianceReport.com using your Access Code and Report Number. VI. REFERENCES:Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education, Institutional Requirements: Revision September 26,2021; effective July 1, 2022. The Council on Podiatric Medical Education (CPME), CPME 330, Procedures for Approval of PodiatricResidencies: April 2022POLICY & PROCEDURE SUBJECT: Social Media (PR) *IHN * DEPT: ADMINISTRATION, PUBLIC RELATIONS Page 1 of 4 EFFECTIVE Date: 08/17/2020 REVIEW Date: 08/15/2022 I. Purpose The purpose of this policy is to provide Inspira Health employees with guidelines for participation in social media, including engaging with Inspira Health’s official channels, and non-Inspira Health social media in which the employee’s affiliation is known, identified, or presumed. This Social Media Policy focuses on avoiding the unique pitfalls online communications holds for professionals without unnecessarily restricting the ability of individual employees to be creative in taking advantage of technolog y. II. Policy This policy lists guidelines for employee’s personal use of social media, including, but not limited to: Networking sites (i.e. Facebook, Instagram, LinkedIn, etc.) Blogs, wikis, online forums and review sites (i.e. Twitter, Reddit, Wikipedia, Yelp, etc.) Photo and video sharing sites (i.e. Flickr, YouTube, TikTok, etc.) Public and private (direct) messaging on all platforms When using social media, be aware that existing Inspira policies still apply, especially those pertaining to patient priv acy, electronic communications, confidential information, personal devices, media policy, and the Code of Conduct. Inspira’s Marketing and Public Relations department is responsible for, and always monitoring the use of, the Inspira brand. Inspira’s Mar keting and Publich Relations department must approve all official Inspira Health social media accounts, groups, and statements before projects may commence. Marketing and Public Relations must also provide permission for any vendors or partners sharing in formation about the work they do with Inspira. III. Guidelines: You are personally responsible for all your posts and online activities that can be traced in any way to Inspira. Do not use your work email address or any Inspira assets for engaging in personal social networking activity. Be mindful that your comments and activities (including but not limited to pictures, videos, words, actions, gestures, music, etc.) have the potential to impact Inspira’s image and relationships with patients and other employees, medical staff, vendors, and external parties. IV. What You Share When you participate in social media, be careful about the information you provide and distinguish personal from professional. Remember that online posts exist forever – even on platforms that limit visibility, the content remains on their servers and could be resurfaced at any time. Be respectful and professional in your word usage, actions, music, and tone of posts/responses. A good rule of thumb is to post only something you would want your manager (or future manager) to see.POLICY & PROCEDURE SUBJECT: Social Media (PR) *IHN * DEPT: ADMINISTRATION, PUBLIC RELATIONS Page 2 of 4 EFFECTIVE Date: 08/17/2020 REVIEW Date: 08/15/2022 Be conscious of confidentiality and share only publicly available information. Do not post any confidential information ob tained due to your role, internal documents, information about our patients or other employees. When in doubt, share news from our official pages - Inspira carefully cultivates content for public dissemination and ensures it is accurate and free of errors. It is best practice, and sometimes legally required, to get permission from any person included in photo/video/audio. Employees are prohibited from publishing any content featuring other Inspira employees without their consent. Employees are prohibitedfrom publishing any content featuring patients. HIPAA still applies. You may not use or disclose any patient identifiable, Protected Health Information (PHI) of any kind without the express written permission of the patient. Even if an individual is not identified by name within the information you use or disclose, if there is any conceivable basis to believe that the person could still be identified from that information, then its use or disclosure could constituteaviolation of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) and Inspira policy. Give special attention to the background of photos/videos taken on Inspira property to ensure they do not contain any PHI, including patients in the distance, overheard voices, computer screens, charts, scans, etc. Be truthful and be accurate in all communications. Errors, omissions or unprofessional language or behavior reflects poorly on Inspira Health. Do not publish false reviews about Inspira (positive or negative). Share insight in your area of expertise. Do not share clinical advice beyond your scope of practice or share photos/video using clinical equipment in an inappropriate way. Use good judgement. If you’re considering posting something but have doubts, it’s best not to post it. Adhere to social media platform’s official Terms and Conditions. V. How You Identify Inspira As an Inspira employee, you are the face of the organization when you’re interacting with patients and our community while at work. Social media can expand on that perception and it is possible that your views may be interpreted as those of the organization. If you identify Inspira as your employer, also accurately identify your position and title. If you reference Inspira when using social media, you must make it clear that any posts represent your opinions and not those of the Company. Write in the first person (i.e. “In my opinion” or “I am not aware”).POLICY & PROCEDURE SUBJECT: Social Media (PR) *IHN * DEPT: ADMINISTRATION, PUBLIC RELATIONS Page 3 of 4 EFFECTIVE Date: 08/17/2020 REVIEW Date: 08/15/2022 Use additional consideration for the content you’re posting if you’re wearing the Inspira brand (t -shirt, lanyard, etc.). For security purposes, do not share photos or video showing your employee badge. VI. General •It is discouraged for staff and their manager/supervisor to be connected on personal social media accounts as the information shared may haveane gative impact on the work environment. One exception is if the account is specifically for professional networking, i.e. LinkedIn. Use your personal email address (not your ihn.org address) and personal devices. Inspira employee email addresses and Inspi ra employee email addresses and Inspira issued devices are only for work -related communication. •Employees are encouraged to share work -related concerns with their manager, Human Resources, or on Inspira Talk before disclosing complaints in social media. This gives Inspira an opportunity to address and provideasolution to the issue. •Ensure that your social networking activity does not interfere with your work or workplace. Check with your manager if you have questions. •Consider how your socialmedia activities, and how someone may perceive them, might reflect Inspira’s Mission, Vision, and Values. Inspira does not tolerate hate speech of any kind. Adhere to the social media platform’s official Terms and Conditions. Nothing in this policy is intended to preclude or dissuade employees from engaging in legally protected activity, including activity protected by the National Labor Relations Act (NLRA), such as discussing terms and conditions of employment or engaging in concerted protected activi ty. In all cases, employees must adhere to Inspira’s HIPAA policies and applicable law. VII. Violation Violation of this policy may result in disciplinary action up to and including termination of employment. Inspira prohibits taking negative action againstany employee for reportingapossible deviation from this policy or for cooperating in an investigation. Any employee who retaliates against another for reportingapossible deviation from this policy or for cooperating in an investigation will be subjectto disciplinary action, up to and including termination. If you haveaquestion oraconcern about this policy or content you have seen on social media, please contact the Office of Compliance at 856 -507-7857 or email compliance@ihn.org. For general questions or suggestions for Inspira’s official social media accounts, please contact the Marketing and Public Relations Department at socialmedia@ihn.org.POLICY & PROCEDURE SUBJECT: Social Media (PR) *IHN * DEPT: ADMINISTRATION, PUBLIC RELATIONS Page 4 of 4 EFFECTIVE Date: 08/17/2020 REVIEW Date: 08/15/2022 REFERENCES a.Telepho ne/Cell Phone Usage HR.83 b.Inspira Code of Conduct c.Media Access PolicyGRADUATE MEDICAL EDUCATION POLICY AND PROCEDURE TITLE: Program Overview NO: GME.05 ORIGINATING SOURCE: Graduate Medical Education EFFECTIVE DATE: 06/01/2023 EXECUTIVE APPROVALS: Michael J. Geria, DO, MS, FACOOG (Dist) Vice President of Academic Affairs/DIO P ERSONNEL: SUPERSEDES: 03/07/2022 07/01/2020 Interns Residents Fellows LOCATIONS: Page: 1 of 1 Vineland Mullica Hill Elmer Bridgeton Woodbury COMMITTEE APPROVALS: N/A I.PURPOSE:The goals of the Graduate Medical Education (GME) programs at Inspira Health Network for the individualresident are as follows:To further the graduate medical education of the resident in preparation for state licensure eligibility, andwhere applicable, prepare for specialty board certification.To advance competency in the management of medical diseases.To advance skills in the performance of clinical procedures.To increase the medical knowledge base.To learn responsibilities of medical staff citizenship.To appreciate Quality Management/Process Improvement asameans of insuring optimal patient care.To be exposed to regulatory controls in the health care system.To provide resident care to patients under the direction of Teaching Faculty, and in so doing, providebenefits for the patient as well as giving the Resident medical educational experience.To teach peers and students assigned to educational programs of the medical centers, and in so doing, gainpersonal education and clinical, professional expertise.To conduct research under the direction of residents, fellows, medical staff members, and college facultyto gain additional medical education experiences.To experience the responsibility of practice in medical centers and offices and, in so doing, prepare for the medical records, reporting, committee responsibilities, etc., of the health care delivery system. Gainexpertise in treating the variety of patient populations in our community, withaparticular understandingfor the medically underserved.To assume some administrative responsibilities within the residency training programs, and in so doing,prepare for responsibilities asacontributing member ofamedical staff organization II.FORMS/ATTACHMENTS:None III. EQUIPMENT/SUPPLIES:N/A IV. REFERENCES:Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education, Institutional Requirements: Revision September26, 2021; effective July 1, 2022. The Council on Podiatric Medical Education (CPME), CPME 330, Procedures for Approval of PodiatricResidencies: April 2022 GRADUATE MEDICAL EDUCATION POLICY AND PROCEDURE TITLE: Medical Records Completion NO: GME.06 ORIGINATING SOURCE: Graduate Medical Education Effective Date: 05/22/2023 EXECUTIVE APPROVALS: Michael J. Geria, DO, MS, FACOOG (Dist) Vice President of Academic Affairs/DIO P ERSONNEL: Supersedes: 03/07/2022 07/01/2020 Interns Residents Fellows LOCATIONS : Page: 1 of 2 Vineland Mullica Hill Elmer Bridgeton Woodbury COMMITTEE APPROVALS: N/A I.PURPOSE:To establish standards, notification, and enforcement processes to ensure prompt completion of medicalrecords by residents and fellows. II.FORMS/ATTACHMENTS:None III.EQUIPMENT/SUPPLIES:N/A IV.POLICY:Inspira Health Network Graduate Medical Education has established an institutional policyregarding the medical records system for the graduate medical education programs within the institution. V.P ROCEDURE: A.Med ical Record Completion•Residents are to document all patient care activities inalegible, thorough, and timely manner. Fai lure to complete patient records within the time frame specified below will result in suspensi onof the resident’s privileges until the records are completed.•Residents will be given instruction in proper medical record documentation at orientation befo re they formally begin training. Proper procedure will be outlined and given to the residents inwriti ng. •C ompletion of medical records includes signing all orders, operative notes, and patient charts, aswell as completing dictations for all patients for whom the resident provided care in the time framestated below : oH istory and Physical: At the time of admission.oOperative Notes: At the completion of the procedureoDischarge Summaries: At the time of discharge, or no later than 24 hours post discharge. B.H ealth Information Management (HIM):HIM Department Weekly Suspension Guidelines•New Jersey 8:43G-15.2: Medical records shall be completed within 30 days of discharge. Medical Records Completion GME:06 Page 2 of 2 •Charts over 30 days old from discharge are considered delinquent and make the provider eligible for suspensi on. •TUESDAY: A Potential Suspension List is created, charts are reviewed, and letters are faxed or emailed to the providers : oResidents: Suspension – 7 days’ post discharge •WEDNESDAY: Each provider on the Potential Suspension List is reviewed to determine if the delinquent charts have been completed:oThe list of residents being suspended is created and sent to:The “Resident Suspension Team” – who may consist of the director of the program, ch airs of the department, resident support staff, and the residentsC.Addi tional Information:•Residents are placed on the delinquency list for incomplete records seven days discharge (asopposed to 30 days for other providers) – this is to allow ample time for their attendings to cosigna nd modify as needed.•The residents do not get warning letters regarding their charts – they go right to suspension (same reason as noted above) – they receive the letter to the IHN email address.•The residents are expected to have no charts in their message center to complete prior to leavingf or any planned PTO. •T he potential delinquency list goes out on Tuesdays at noon and the final delinquency list goesout on Thursday at noon, allowing two days for delinquent charts to be completed. •T he updated list is emailed out wheneveraresident has completed charts and has beenremoved. HIM Locations: (updated 6/1/2025) •Bridgeton : Located on the ground floor, by physical therapyCall directly at x54580 or 856-575- 4580 •Elmer:Located on the first floor across from the Physician’s Lounge. Call directly at x31580 or 856-363- 1580 •Vineland : L ocated on the lobby level next to the Medical Staff Office & Physician Lounge.Call directly at x17580 or 856-641- 7580 •M ullica Hill:Located on the first floor to the right of the cafeteria.Call directly atx80146 or 856-508-1000,x80146 V I.REFERENCES: A ccreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education, Institutional Requ irements: Revision September 26, 2021; effective July 1, 2022 T he Council on Podiatric Medical Education (CPME), CPME 330, Procedures for Approval of Podiatric Residencies: April 2022GRADUATE MEDICAL EDUCATION POLICY AND PROCEDURE TITLE: Equal Training Opportunity, Diversity, & Disability Accommodations NO: GME.07 ORIGINATING SOURCE: Graduate Medical Education Effective Date: 06/01/2023 EXECUTIVE APPROVALS: Michael J. Geria, DO, MS, FACOOG (Dist) Vice President of Academic Affairs/DIO P ERSONNEL: Supersedes: 03/07/2022 07/01/2020 Interns Residents Fellows LOCATIONS: Page: 1 of 2 Vineland Mullica Hill Elmer Bridgeton Woodbury COMMITTEE APPROVALS: N/A I.PURPOSE:To provide equal residency training and advancement opportunities to all individuals, residency appointment andpromotion decisions at Inspira Health Network will be based on merit, qualifications, and academic abilities.Inspira Health Network does not discriminate in residency training opportunities or practices based on race, color,religion, sex, national origin, age, disability, or any other characteristic protected by law. II.F ORMS/ATTACHMENTS:None III.E QUIPMENT/SUPPLIES:N/A IV.POLICY:Inspira Health Network will make reasonable accommodat ions for qualified individuals with known disabilities unless doing so would result in an undue hardship. This policy governs all aspects ofresidency training, including selection, academic assignment, stipends, discipline, termination, and access to benefits and training. A ny resident with questions or concerns about any type of discrimination in the workplace areencouraged to bring these issues to the attention of their program director, the DIO, or the Human Resources Department. Residents can raise concerns and make reports without fear of reprisal. Anyonefound to be engaging in any type of unlawful discrimination will be subject to disciplinary action, up toand including termination of their training. (Refer to Inspira Policy HR.05, Anti-Harassment & Non- Discrimination). V.P ROCEDURE: D isability Accommodations Inspira Health Network is committed to complying fully with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA)and ensuring equal opportunity in residency training for qualified persons with disabilities. All residencyrelated practices and activities are conducted onanon -discriminatory basis. Equal Training Opportunity, Diversity and Disability Accommodations GME:07 Page 2 of 2 Application and selection procedures have been reviewed and provide persons with disabilities meaningful training opportunities. Pre-selection inquiries are made only regarding an applicant's ability to perform the duties of the position. Reasonable accommodation is available to all disabled residents, where their disability affects the performance of duties. All selection and promotion decisions are based on the merits of the situation in accordance with defined criteria, not the disability of the individual. Qua lified individuals with disabilities are entitled to equal stipends and other forms of compensation (or changes in compensation) as well as in training assignments, classifications, organizational structures, position descriptions, lines of progression, and seniority lists. Leave of all types will be available to all trainees on an equal basis in accordance with ACGME and CPME policies. Ins pira Health Network is also committed to not discriminating against any qualified residents or applicants because they are related to or associated withaperson withadisability. Inspira Health Network will follow any state or local law that provides individuals with disabilities greater protection than the ADA. Thispolicy is neither exhaustive nor exclusive. Inspira Health Network is committed to taking all other actions necessary to ensure equal residency traini ng opportunity for persons with disabilities in accordance with the ADA and all other applicable federal, state, and local laws. VI.RE FERENCES: Accred itation Council for Graduate Medical Education, Institutional Requirements : Revision September 26, 2021; effective July 1, 2022 The Council on Podiatric Medical Education (CPME), CPME 330, Procedures for Approval of Podiatric Residencies: April 2022 Insp ira Health Network, Human Resources HR.05, Anti-Harassment & Non-Discrimination Policy, Anti- Harassment and Non-Discrimination HR.05 *IHN* v.6 (policytech.com)GRADUATE MEDICAL EDUCATION POLICY AND PROCEDURE TITLE: Eligibility and Selection of Residents NO: GME.08 ORIGINATING SOURCE: Graduate Medical Education Effective Date: 06/01/2023 EXECUTIVE APPROVALS: Michael J. Geria, DO, MS, FACOOG (Dist) Vice President of Academic Affairs/DIO PERSONNEL: Supersedes: 03/07/2022 07/01/2020 Interns Residents Fellows LOCATIONS : Page: 1 of 5 Vineland Mullica Hill Elmer Bridgeton Woodbury COMMITTEE APPROVALS: N/A I.PURPOSE:To comply with the ACGME Common Program, The Council on Podiatric Medical Education (CPME), and Institutional Requirements, National Residency Matching Program s, and National Matching Service Match System policies and institutional processes. To assure fair, legal, andappropriate recruitment, selection, and hiring practices. This Resident Recruitment, Eligibility andSelection Policy is established to provide procedures for resident eligibility, selectioncriteria and selection processes in support of safe and high-quality patient care, educational excellence,scholarship, and professional and institutional integrity. R esident physicians are selected onafair and equal basis without regard to race, color, religion, sex, national origin, or sexual orientation. Selection is based on the applicant’s preparedness, ability, aptitude, academic credentials, and interpersonal and written skills. Applicants must apply through ERAS - participate in the NRMP (the Match) or The Central Application Service for Podiatric Residencies (CASPR) and The Centralized Residency Interview Program (CRIP) Programs - participate in NMS Match System. II.FORMS/ATTACHMENTS:None III.EQUIPMENT/SUPPLIES: N/A IV. POLICY:The policy of Inspira Health Network - Office of Graduate Medical Education is to ensure programs select from among eligible applicants based on their preparedness, ability, aptitude, academiccredentials, communication skills and personal qualities including motivation and integrity. Programswill not discriminate regarding sex, race, age, religion, sexual orientation, gender identity, color,national origin, disability, creed, ancestry, marital status, veteran status, or any other applicable legally protected status. E ach residency/fellowship program is responsible for the recruitment of candidates that are eligiblefor appointment as resident physicians. Each program should have formal procedures for theapplication, evaluation, and selection of eligible candidates. Eligibility and Selection of Residents GME:08 Page 2 of 5 V. PROCEDURE:Application Procedure: ApplicationApplication for PGY-1 positions must be submitted by the candidate using ERAS - the Electronic Residency Application Service or CASPR - The Central Application Service for Podiatric Residencies. Paper applications will not be accepted. The initiation of the application process shall be instituted by the applicant sending their application materials through ERAS or CASPR. A.Deadline for ApplicationsApplications must be submitted through ERAS or CASPR by the published program specific deadline for the preceding the PGY year. B.A pplication Content E very resident/fellow who seeks or participates in any Inspira Health Network training program,at the time of appointment and continuously thereafter, must demonstrate, to the satisfaction ofthe teaching faculty and the Review Committee and where applicable the followingqualifications:  Official, verifiable transcripts showing date of completion of medical degree requirements from:1.ACGME programs: a. Graduates of medical schools in the United States and Canada accredited by the Liaison Committee on Medical Education (LCME). b. Graduates of colleges of Osteopathic medicine in the United States accredited by the AOA Commission on Osteopathic CollegeAccreditation (COCA). c. Graduates of medical schools outside the United States and Canada who meet the following qualifications: i. Have receivedacurrently valid certificate from the ECFMG and, ii. Speak and write fluent English d. Graduates of medical schools outside the United States and Canada who have completedaFifth Pathway program provided by an LCME- accredited medical school. 2.CPME program: a. CPME accredited school of Podiatric Medicine  Scores:ERAS: acceptable to the individual residency program on steps/levels I & II, of USMLE and COMLEX. No substitutions are permissible.CASPR: APMLE parts I & II Scores  A minimum of three letters of recommendation in addition to the Dean’s letter of recommendation.  Personal StatementEligibility and Selection of Residents GME:08 Page 3 of 5  During the interview process the applicants are informed, in writing of the terms, conditions, and benefits of their appointment, 1.Resident/Fellow responsibilities 2.Duration of appointment 3.Financial support 4.Conditions for reappointment  Successful completion of all appropriate licensure examinations.  Attitude: A willingness and capacity, based upon current attitude and evidence of performance: 1.to work, relate to, and cooperate with other interns, residents, fellows, students, medical staff members, members of other health disciplines, medical center management, and employees, visitors, and the community, inaprofessional manner that is essential for maintainingamedical center environment appropriate to quality patient care; and, 2.to adhere to generally recognized standards of professional ethics, including proper dress, demeanor, and conduct at all times. Restrictions:To have under adequate control any significant physical or behavioral impairment that might restrict or presentasubstantial probability of interfering with the qualifications required herein, such that patient care could directly or likely be adversely affected. Obligations:Each Intern, resident, or fellow will:Provide patients with care at the recognized professional level of quality and efficiency recognized as standard at the medical center.A bide by these Rules and Regulations and by all other lawful standards, policies, and rules as they now exist or as they may be amended.Discharge such functions for which he/she is responsible.Prepare and complete, in timely fashion, all required medical records for all assigned patients and all service logs and evaluations.Log duty hours using the system identified by the training program.Prepare and complete all forms required by the training program.Satisfy the educational requirements of the program.Sit for COMLEX Part III, or USMLE Part III during the PGY-1 training year or other required licensure examinations and provide scores as proof.Maintain all required certifications such as BLS, ACLS, etc.Follow the directions of the attending physician, Program directors, Chairpersons,Directors of Medical Education, Chiefs of Service, Office of Graduate Medical Education, and all administrative persons responsible for the conduct of this program.Eligibility and Selection of Residents GME:08 Page 4 of 5 C.Effect of ApplicationBy sending an application through ERAS/CASPR, the applicant:Attests to the correctness and completeness of all information furnished.Signifies his/her willingness to appear for an interview in connection with theapplication.Agrees to abide by the terms of the resident contract, the training program rules andregulations of the accrediting body, the rules and regulati ons of the training program, the medical center Bylaws, Rules and Regulations, policies, and procedures of the medicalstaff as they pertain to residents and agrees to abide by the terms thereof.Authorizes and consents to Inspira Health Network, and anyconsulting with those institutions and persons who have information regarding competence and consents to theinspection of all records and documents that may be material to evaluation of saidqualifications.Releases from any liability all those who, in good faith and without malice, review, acton, or provide information regarding the applicant's competency, ethics, character, healthstatus, and other qualifications for residency appointment. D.P rocessing the ApplicationApplicant's Burden The applicant is required to produce adequate and correct information foraproper evaluation of his/her training, ability (knowledge and skills), ethical, and attitudinal conduct about the qualification for selection and appointment to the residency training program, and of satisfying any reasonable request for information or clarification made by appropriate request. The applicant further understands that should an appointment be granted, the burden of providingaverifiable diploma from the medical school, and all other requested documents prior to beginning the training program is the responsibility of the resident. Theresponsibility of attending all required orientation programs prior to the start of the residency shall be his/hers. Theresident must submit to and satisfactorily passaphysical examination conducted by an agent of Inspira Health Network and submit to all state regulations regarding health standards including PPD, MMR, tetanus, polio virus, varicella, hepatitis B and influenza vaccinations. E.V erification of InformationThe applicant is responsible for having signed letters of reference,acompletedapplication, board scores, dean’s letter, and transcripts sent through ERAS/CASPR by the application deadline. The completed application is submitted to the Inspira Health Network office of Graduate Medical Education. The Office of GME collects these references and documents sent in support of the application. The candidate designates to which residency program(s) the completed application should be sent.Eligibility and Selection of Residents GME:08 Page 5 of 5 When possible, the Office of GME will notify the applicant of any problems in receiving the information required. Upon notification, it is the applicant's obligation to obtain the required information. When collection and verification is completed, the application is reviewed by the appropriate program director to determine individuals eligible for an interview. Theapplication file is confidential and may not be reviewed by unauthorized personnel of Inspira Health Network or the applicant. Information submitted in support of an application for residency remains the property of the Office of GME and cannot be forwarded/released to other parties, nor the applicant. F.R esident Selection Committee ActionThe Resident Selection Committee is responsible for the following actions:Review the application file and credentials.Schedule and conduct an interview with appropriate applicants.Conductaselection process from among the candidates, indicating selections for admission to the training program/s, and rank alternate candidates. VI. REFERENCES: A ccreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education, Institutional Requirements: Revision September 26, 2021; effective July 1, 2022 T he Council on Podiatric Medical Education (CPME), CPME 330, Procedures for Approval of Podiatric Residencies: April 2022GRADUATE MEDICAL EDUCATION POLICY AND PROCEDURE TITLE: Non-Compete Policy NO: GME.09 ORIGINATING SOURCE: Graduate Medical Education Effective Date: 06/01/2023 EXECUTIVE APPROVALS: Michael J. Geria, DO, MS, FACOOG (Dist) Vice President of Academic Affairs/DIO P ERSONNEL: Supersedes: N/A Interns Residents Fellows LOCATIONS: Page: 1 of 1 Vineland Mullica Hill Elmer Bridgeton Woodbury COMMITTEE APPROVALS: N/A I.PURPOSE:The purpose of this policy is to comply with the ACGME Institutional Requirement requiring accreditedresidency or fellowship programs to adoptapolicy expressly stating that neither the Sponsoring Institution norany of its ACGME-accredited programs, nor programs under the Sponsoring Institution’s GME oversight willrequirearesident/fellow to signanon-competition guarantee or restrictive covenant. (ACGME InstitutionalRequirement Section IV.M.) II.FORMS/ATTACHMENTS:None III.EQ UIPMENT/SUPPLIES:N/A IV.POLICY:It is the Inspira Health Network (IHN) policy and its sponsored GME programs, follow ACGME and CPM Erequirements for Trainees pertaining to non-competition guarantees or restrictive covenants. This policy appliesto allGraduate Medical Education sponsored by Inspira Health Network, including those accredited by the ACGME and CPME, and other programs/training that is under the oversight of IHN GMEC. V.P ROCEDURE: Residents and fellows are advised they may not signanon- compete or restrictive covenant clause as part ofany GME or program documents, or asacontingency for employment asaresident/fellow in an ACGME-accredited or CPME program. Residents and fellows must immediately notify GME if they are asked to sign suchadocument. VI.REFERENCES: Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education, Institutional Requirements: Revision September 26, 2021; effective July 1, 2022 The Council on Podiatric Medical Education (CPME), CPME 330, Procedures for Approval of Podiatric Residencies: April 2022 GRADUATE MEDICAL EDUCATION POLICY AND PROCEDURE TITLE: Resident Transfer NO: GME.10 ORIGINATING SOURCE: Graduate Medical Education Effective Date: 05/15/2023 EXECUTIVE APPROVALS: Michael J. Geria, DO, MS, FACOOG (Dist) Vice President of Academic Affairs/DIO PERSONNEL: Supersedes: 03/07/2022 07/01/2020 Interns Residents Fellows LOCATIONS : Page: 1 of 2 Vineland Mullica Hill Elmer Bridgeton Woodbury COMMITTEE APPROVALS: N/A I.PURPOSE: The purpose of this policy is to ensure the exchange of information between residency programs involved in thetransfer ofaresident. II.FORMS/ATTACHMENTS:None III.EQ UIPMENT/SUPPLIES:N/A IV.POLICY: D efines the transfer process for Applicants wanting to transfer from an external Graduate Medi cal Educati on ( GME) program to an Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME) -accredited program at Inspira Health Network. V.P ROCEDURE:RESIDENT TRANSFERSResidents who transfer from other graduate medical education/residency programs to Inspira Health Network program/s must meet the same criteria as incoming PGY-I residents, with the additional requirements: 1. Written or electronic verification of educational experiences/list of rotations that were Successfully completed. 2. Summative competency-based performance evaluations. 3. List of procedures performed and passed. 4. Summative Milestone-based performance evaluations. 5. A statement from the “sending” program stating: “(Resident name) is currentlyaPGY (level) intern/resident in good-standing in the (name of residency program) at (name of sponsoring institution). S/he has satisfactorily completed all rotations to date, and we anticipate s/he will satisfactorily complete her/his PGY (level) year on Resident Transfer GME:10 Page 2 of 2 (date). A summary of her/his rotations andasummative competency-based performance evaluation will be sent to you by (date)” 6. A written release form allowing Inspira to contact previous residency programs to discuss prior performance and reasons for leaving. During the interview process the applicant is informed, in writing of the terms, conditions, and benefits of appointment, such as: 1. Resident responsibilities 2. Duration of appointment 3. Financial support 4. Conditions for reappointment VI.REFERENCES: Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education, Inst itutional Requirements: Revision September 26, 2021; effective July 1, 2022 T he Council on Podiatric Medical Education (CPME), CPME 330, Procedures for Approval of Podiatric Residencies: April 2022GRADUATE MEDICAL EDUCATION POLICY AND PROCEDURE TITLE: Pre-Employment Physical, Orientation, and Respiratory Fit Test NO: GME.11 ORIGINATING SOURCE: Graduate Medical Education Effective Date: 05/15/2023 EXECUTIVE APPROVALS: Michael J. Geria, DO, MS, FACOOG (Dist) Vice President of Academic Affairs/DIO PERSONNEL: Supersedes: 03/07/2022 07/01/2020 Interns Residents Fellows LOCATIONS : Page: 1 of 2 Vineland Mullica Hill Elmer Bridgeton Woodbury COMMITTEE AP PROVALS: N/A I.POLICY:A resident’s appointment or matriculation in the GME program is contingent upon the satisfactory completionofabackground check. The background check will consist of verifying present and past employment, criminalhistory, social security verification and employment references. Additionally, educational, and professional credentials and motor vehicle records will be checked as position requirements demand. All backgroundchecks will be conducted in accordance with the Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA) andrequireasigned release by the applicant after an offer of appointment has been made. The signed release isacondition ofacceptance into the residency training program of Inspira Health Network and shall not be waived for anyreason. Ifabackground check disqualifies an applicant for any reason, the applicant will be notified and givena reasonable opportunity to correct any inaccuracies contained in the background report. I nspira requires each new employee to haveaphysical examination and certain diagnostic tests completed prior to the start of employment. A member of Inspira’s Employee Health Office will conduct this exam; each resident must also pass the criminal background check before orientati on. II.F ORMS/ATTACHMENTS:None III. E QUIPMENT/SUPPLIES:N/A IV.PROCEDURE: Pr e-Employment Physical and Orientation I ncoming residents will be screened with PHQ 2 and AUDIT -C. This is mandatory for all incoming residents, and current residents. a)Ifpositive but NOT in danger to themselves or others, then the resident will be directed to follow up with their PCP, given *CareBridge information, and will follow up with the MedicalDirector of Employee Health, Pre-Employment Physical, Orientation, and Respiratory Fit Test GME:11 Page 2 of 2 b)If positive and in YES in danger to themselves or not deemed to be fit to carefor patients, it wi ll be bought to the immediate attention of the Program Director and DIO. Current residents will be required to have screening by October 1 and seen by their PCP for annual physical and screening. All Inspira providers will need to be alerted of this. Any resident seen byanon- Inspira PCP will need to bring in proof that they were screened (could simply be on letterhead or script pad that patient was seen and screened). Ins pira also provides the following preventive health care to employees upon request, or as warranted: a)Influenza immunizationb)Hepatitis B vaccine is offered to all employees who may have occupational exposure to blood or body fluidsc)Optional physical examination is offered to all employees annually d)Pneumococcal vaccine is offered upon written request from the employee's private physician e)Inspira will provide the necessary testing and/or treatment for work-related exposure to communicable disease consistent with the NJDOHSS’ current policy and others as appropriate (See Inspira Employee Communicable Disease Exposures and Work-Related Illness/Injuri es E H.2). Resp irator Fit Test Itis the policy of Inspira Health Network, that all personnel entering rooms, transporting, or having contact during special procedures with patients diagnosed with or suspected of ha ving active TB will be properly fitted foraNIOSH approved, high efficiency disposable particulate respirator. P lease refer to HR Policy OH.8 under the Department of Employee Health *CarebridgeThe Carebridge EAP provides help with personal and family issues through telephonic or face- to-face consultation, assistance, and resources available 24 hoursaday, seven daysaweek. In addition to its EAP, Carebridge makes availableto all employees its Work-Life Services Program to assist with managing childcare, elder care, college planning, parenting, adoption, time management, financial and retirement planning and much more. Carebridge EAP & Work- Life Services: Call: 1-800-437-0911 or Online: http://www.myliferesource.com Access Code: AGCA8 V.REFERENCES: Inspira Health Network – Employee Health, OH.8 Respirator Fit Test Policy, Reviewed 03/07/2 019, Respirator Fit Test OH.8 v.3 (policytech.com) Inspira Employee Communicable Disease Exposures and Work-Related Illness/Injuries EH.2 Policy, Reviewed 08/19/2022, Inspira Employee Communicable Disease Exposures and Work Related Illness/Injuri es EH.2 *IHN* v.4 (policytech.com)GRADUATE MEDICAL EDUCATION POLICY AND PROCEDURE TITLE: Supervision of Residents NO: GME.12 ORIGINATING SOURCE: Graduate Medical Education Effective Date: 05/22/2023 EXECUTIVE APPROVALS: Michael J. Geria, DO, MS, FACOOG (Dist) Vice President of Academic Affairs/DIO PERSONNEL: Supersedes: 03/07/2022 07/01/2020 Interns Residents Fellows Medical Students LOCATIONS : Page: 1 of 4 Vineland Mullica Hill Elmer Bridgeton Woodbury COMMITTEE APPROVALS: N/A I.PURPOSE:Supervision in the setting of graduate medical education provides safe and effective care to Inspira HealthNetwork patients and, ensures each resident’s development of the skills, knowledge, and attitudes required toenter the unsupervised practice of medicine, and establishesafoundation for continued professional growth. II.FORMS/ATTACHMENTS:None III.E QUIPMENT/SUPPLIES:N/A IV.POLICY:It is the policy of Inspira Health Network to ensure that attending physicians actively supervise resident physicians and appropriately document this supervision in the medical record. Within the scope of the Graduate Medical Education (GME) program, all residents will function under the supervision of appropriately credentialed attending physicians. T he residency programs must ensure that adequate supervision is always provided for residents. An attending must be immediately available to each resident in person or by telephone, and able to be present withinareasonable period-of-time, if needed. Call schedules indicating the responsible attending to be contacted are to be published each month and placed inaprominent location. T he GME program will be structured to encourage and permit residents to assume increasing levels of responsibility commensurate with their individual experience, skill, knowledge, and judgment. The program director will review performance evaluations and supervise progression from one training level to the next based on the guidelines set forth by the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME), or the Council on Podiatric Medical Education (CPME). As resident’s advance in training, they may be given increased responsibilities to conduct clinical activities with limited supervision or to act as teaching assistants to less experienced residents. V.PROCEDURE:Resident job descriptions (based on year of training), and competency-based evaluations will be available to accurately monitor resident’s progression. Inspira Health Network adheres to current accreditation requirements as Supervision of Residents GME:12 Page 2 of 4 set forth by the ACGME, CPME, or other applicable organizations for all matters pertaining to the training programs. For all clinic hours, there will be an attending physician present for immediate availability to the residents. ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES 1.The Graduate Medical Education Committee (GMEC) is responsible for establishing and monitoring policies and procedures with respect to the institution’s residency training programs. 2.The Program director is responsible for the quality of overall residency education and for ensuring that the program is in compliance with the policies of the ACGME, or CPME, and other certifying bodies. The Program director defines the levels of responsibility for each year of training by preparing goals and objectives, and job descriptions according to the year of training. The Program director monitors resident progress and ensures that problems, issues, and opportunities to improve education are addressed. The Program director is responsible for establishing program and rotation specific supervision policies. 3.The attending physician is responsible for and is personally involved in the care provided to individual patients. Whenaresident physician is involved, the attending physician continues personal involvement in the care of the patient. The attending physician will provide the appropriate level of supervision based on the nature of the patient’s condition, the likelihood of major changes in the management plan, the complexity of care, and the experience and judgment of the resident being supervised. Documentation of involvement includes ataminimum: 1) Attending physician progress notes written at least daily on all patients, 2) Attending physician countersignature and attestation on daily progress notes 3) Attending physician countersignature and attestation on history and physical exams, 4) Attending physician countersignature and attestation on treatment plans, 5) Attending physician countersignature and attestation on operative reports, 6) Attending physician countersignature on discharge summaries. 4.Residents must be aware of their limitations and not attempt to provide clinical services or perform procedures for which they are not trained. They must know the level of responsibility for their level of training, and not practice outside the scope of service. Residents must notify the attending physician caring for the patient of any changes in patient status or significant clinical issues. Failure to function within graduated levels of responsibility or failure to communicate significant patient care issues to the responsible attending physician may result in disciplinary action. Supe rvision and Accountability Although the attending physician is ultimately responsible for the care of the patient, every physician share in the responsibility and accountability for their efforts in the provision of care. Effective programs, in partnership with their Sponsoring Institutions, define, widely communicate, and monitorastructured chain of responsibility and accountability as it relates to the supervision of all patient care. Supervision in the setting of graduate medical education provides safe and effective care to patients; ensures each resident’s development of the skills, knowledge, and attitudes required to enter the unsupervised practice of med icine; and establishesafoundation for continued professional growth. Supervision of Residents GME:12 Page 3 of 4 Supervision may be exercised throughavariety of methods. For many aspects of patient care, the supervising physician may beamore advanced resident or fellow. Other portions of care provid ed by the resident can be adequately supervised by the appropriate availability of the supervising faculty member, fellow, or senior resident physician, either on site or by means of telecommunication technology. Some activities require the physical presence of the supervising faculty member. In some circumstances, supervision may include post- hoc review of resident-delivered care with feedback. T he program must demonstrate that the appropriate level of supervision in place for all residents is based on ea ch resident’s level of training and ability, as well as patient complexity and acuity. Supervision may be exercised throughavariety of methods, as appropriate to the situation. L evels of Supervision: To promote appropriate resident supervision while providing for graded authority and responsibility, the program must use the following classification of supervision: (1)Direct Supervision: the supervising physician is physically present with the resident during the keyportions of the patient interaction.•PGY-1 residents must initially be supervised directly,•the supervising physician and/or patient is not physically present with the resident and the supervisi ng physician is concurrently monitoring the patient care through appropriate telecommunicati on technolog y. 2) In direct Supervision: the supervising physician is not providing physical or concurrent visual or audios upervision but is immediately available to the resident for guidance and is available to providea ppropriate direct supervisi on. 3) O versight: the supervising physician is available to provide review of procedures/encounters withf eedback provided after care is delivered. Theprivilege of progressive authority and responsibility, conditional independence, andasupervisory role in patient care delegated to each resident must be assigned by the program director and faculty members. •The program director must evaluate each resident’s abilities based on specific criteria, guided by theMilestones. •F aculty members functioning as supervising physicians must delegate portions of care to residentsba sed on the needs of the patient and the skills of each resident.•Senior residents or fellows should serve inasupervisory role to junior residents in recognition of theirprogress toward independence, based on the needs of each patient and the skills of the individualresident or fellow. Pr ograms must set guidelines for circumstances and events in which residents must communicate with the supervising faculty member(s). Each resident must know the limits of their scope of authority, and the circumstances under which the resident is permitted to act with conditional independence. ( Outcome) Background and Intent: The ACGME Glossary of Terms defines conditional independence as: Graded, progressive re sponsibility for patient care with defined oversight. Faculty supervision assignments must be of sufficient duration to assess the knowledge and skills of each resident and to delegate to the resident the appropriate level of patient care authorityand responsibility. Supervision of Residents GME:12 Page 4 of 4 MEDICAL STUDENTS: Medical students should only be doing procedures under direct supervision of an attending or resident who is credentialed to perform same. In the case ofaresident, they are cleared by their program director as proficientin same. The only exception would be an H&P with physical exam limited toabasic physical, no pelvic or rectal exam. The medical student must properly identify themselves asamedical student and obtain the consent of the patient prior to the examination or procedure. HOSPITAL MONITORING OF SUPERVISION 1.The Vice-President of Academic Affairs is responsible for ensuring that the institution fulfills all responsibilities identified within this section.2. Along with the Vice-President of Academic Affairs, the program director is responsible for monitoring resident supervision, identifying problems, and devising plans of remediation. 3.Ataminimum, the monitoring process will include:A review of compliance with inpatient and outpatient documentation requirement s, as part of the medical records reviews.A review of all incidents and risk events with complications to ensure that the appropriate level ofsupervision occurred.A review of all accrediting and certifying bodies’ concerns and follow -up actions. V I.REFERENCES: A ccreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education, Institutional Requirements : Revision Septemb er 26, 2021 ; effective July 1, 2022 T he Council on Podiatric Medical Education (CPME), CPME 330, Procedures for Approval of Podiatric Residencies: April 2022GRADUATE MEDICAL EDUCATION POLICY AND PROCEDURE TITLE: Communication NO: GME.13 ORIGINATING SOURCE: Graduate Medical Education Effective Date: 06/01/2023 EXECUTIVE APPROVALS: Michael J. Geria, DO, MS, FACOOG (Dist) Vice President of Academic Affairs/DIO PERSONNEL: Supersedes: 03/07/2022 07/01/2020 Interns Residents Fellows LOCATIONS: Page: 1 of 12 Vineland Mullica Hill Elmer Bridgeton Woodbury COMMITTEE APPROVALS: N/A I.PURPOSE: Communication is one of the core competencies identified by the CPME and ACGME. Effective lines ofcommunication are also linked to professionalism. II.FORMS/ATTACHMENTS:None III.EQUIPMENT/SUPPLIES: C areAware Connect Messenger App IV. POLICY:As physicians, it is imperative that you are always available during regular duty hours and, in cases of emergency, even after hours.1.A ll email communication between residents and the GME department which includes theDIO, PD’s and Program Manager’s will be conducted using only the assigned IHN email addresses. 2.Residents are required to respond to all emails other than general announcements within24 hours. Exceptions will be made for residents who are on vacation and for those whoare post call. For those who are post call, the time limit isextended to 36 hours. 3.Residents are required to be available during work hours including time spent in theoutpatient setting either by cell phone or by CareAware Connect. Residents are required to respond to all calls or messages as soon as possible. 4. Cellphones, Pagers and CareAware Connect are used at all campus. **Failure to follow these regulations may result in disciplinary action. Communication GME:13 Page 2 of 12 V. PROCEDURE: 1.Residents are required to respond to all emails other than general announcements within 24hours. Exceptions will be made for residents who are on vacation and for those who are post call.For those who are post call, the time limit is extended to 36 hours. 2.Residents are required to be available during work hours including time spent in the outpatientsetting either by cell phone or by CareAware Connect. Residents are required to respond to allcalls or messages as soon as possible. 3.C ell phones, Pagers and CareAware Connect are used at all campus. **F ailure to follow these regulations may result in disciplinary action CARE CONNECT WILL NOT BE USED AT THE INSPIRA ELMER AT THE PRESENT TIME, UPDATES WILL BE GIVEN. SEE INSTRUCTIONS ON THE FOLLOWING PAGES FOR SET UP CareAware Connect Messenger Application isacommunication tool used for secure texting & calling andasecondary alerting application linked to the nurse call system and Staff Link Cerner Nurse Assignment tool. Communication GME:13 Page 3 of 12 CareAware Connect Messenger App – Logging In Log in to the Connect Messenger Application using your Cerner Millennium Use rname and Password. Do not check the “Remember Username” checkbox. NOTE: You will need to Log into EACH of the applications separately, at the beginning of each shift. When logging in for the first time,aprompt will display to createaPIN, if not already created. WHY CREATE A PIN? TO SAVE TIME! If your device is inactive for 15 minutes, you are able to access all applications by using your PIN, instead of having to re-enter your username and password. Receive message “PIN Setup Successful” and click Done. Communication GME:13 Page 4 of 12 TIPS & KEY POINTS 1.At the change of shift, locate Sign In/Out Workflow sheet and sign Spectralink device in/out. (if applicable) 2.Once you log in to CareAware Connect Messenger App an extension will display this will be your own personal extension.3.Check volume second button on side of device.4.If your device is inactivated for 15 minutes, you are able to access all Applications5.by using your PIN. CareAware Connect Messenger – Claimable Roles Claimable Roles are responsibility- based profiles that users can assume, such as 4th Floor Charge Nurse or Cardiologist on Call. Allows users to search for, and initiate communication witharesource based on responsibility without knowing who specifically they need to contact. For staff not in the role of inpatient bedside nurse: Claimingarole in the Messenger App is the key to receiving pertinent patient alerts. CareAware Connect Messenger – ClaimingaRole In-patient bedside nurse will not claimarole. WHY? Patient alerts are driven by the StaffLink Nurse Assignments for this group of users. HOW TO: •Select Contacts from navigation list and then tap the Hospital icon at the top right.•Select the F acility •Select the Location within that Facility •From the Location/Unit screen, select the correct role •On the Role Detail screen, select “Claim Role” •To un-claim the role, simply select “UnclaimaRole”: SeeBelow:Communication GME:13 Page 5 of 12 You can also search foraclaimable role from the facility directory. Type the title of the role in the search field. Once the role is found, click on the role and follow the steps for claimingarole. CareAware Connect Messenger – User Presence: The following describes each presence status: Available : The user is online and available to communicate. Offline : The user is offline and unavailable to communicate. Idle/Away : The user has been idle for an extended period. Communication GME:13 Page 6 of 12 CareAware Connect Messenger – Alerting Alerts that will come to your phone: •Nurse Call (Pillow speaker & wall button) Codes•Alerts can be critical or non-critical.•Alerts will pop up at the top of the screen and then disappear.•You will be able to address these from the•ALERTS section of the Home Screen. RESPONSES •Accept: This means you are acknowledging and taking responsibility for the alert •D ecline: You are acknowledging the alert, but unable to address the immediate need of the patient atthat time. Alert immediately goes to the secondary backup per escalation process. Decli ning an alert is notabad thing, however, someone must still address the alert/patient need. •Ignore: You are NOT acknowledging the alert. Alert goes to your secondary backup after 1 minute. Ifthey do not Accept/Decline, it goes to the charge nurse after another 1 minute. Someone MUST still address the alert/patient call. HOW TO ADDRESS AN ALERT oClick on the Alerts section of the Messenger App. oFrom the Alert list, you can select the Recent or All tabs oReview the alert details, e.g., “Nurse Call” or “Patient Needs Water” and choose to Accept, Accept & Call, Decline or Acknowledge the alert. oYou can also view already addressed alerts from this window by clicking on Addressed Notifications. Communication GME:13 Page 7 of 12 CareAware Connect Messenger - Messages To viewaconversation or respond toatext - click on Messages, select the specific conversation, free text type your message and click send. Createanew text message by clicking on the paper icon at the top right of the screen. Communication GME:13 Page 8 of 12 Inspira Quick Messages: pre-existing phrases, to save you time  Need assistance in room Call me whenavailable Can I getawitness for meds? Check Blood Sugar in room Patient ready forTransfer in room Patient ready for discharge I will call you back Needaventilator in room Huddle startingnow Per Policy, orders cannot be accepted via text message CareAware Connect Messenger – Message Statuses •Sent is right when you send the message.Ifthe recipient is offline this remains. •Delivered is when the recipient is loggedin buthas not read the message. •Read is when the recipient has opened and read themessage.Communication GME:13 Page 9 of 12 CareAware Connect Messenger – Using the Directory The Contact’s list isagroup of contacts within the organization. Findi ngacontact by ROLE ▪Tap on contacts T ap on the Hospital Icon at the top and drill down to your location. ▪Scroll through the roles in that location and check and see if the role is claimed byaperson. Then, tap the contact to initiate the message.Communication GME:13 Page 10 of 12 Findingacontact by SEARCHING •Tap on contacts •Tap on the Hospital Icon at the top right. •Type the name into the Search Bar •Tap the name of the person to initiate the messageCommunication GME:13 Page 11 of 12 CareAware Connect Messenger – AddingaFavorite A Favorite isacontact that you communicate with frequently. You can add or remove any contact asaFavorite. Viewing Favorites From the Contacts tab, select the contact list drop-down menu and select Favorites. Logging Out IMPORTANT, YOU MUST LOG OUT OF ALL APPLICATIONS AT THE END OF EACH SHIFT! Communication GME:13 Page 12 of 12 Logging out from the Application Log-in Page: Tap the vertical dots in the upper right corner. Then tap Log Out. L ogging out from within the MESSENGER application : From the home page, tap Logout in the bottom left of the screen. VI. REFERENCES: Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education, Institutional Requirements: Revision September 26, 2021; effective July 1, 2022 The Council on Podiatric Medical Education (CPME), CPME 330, Procedures for Approval of PodiatricResidencies: April 2022POLICY & PROCEDURE SUBJECT: GME #14 RESIDENT GRIEVANCES Grievances, 10/5 and No Venting DEPT: RESIDENCY PROG - ADMIN *IHN* POLICY: GME #14 Page 1 of 4 EFFECTIVE Date: 03/01/2021 REVIEW Date: 04/01/2021 RESIDENT GENERAL GRIEVANCE POLICY (also refer to Performance Improvement) Please refer to HR policy# HR.37 *IHN* for the entire Inspira employee policy. The purpose of this policy is to set forthafair, reasonable and readily accessible policy for residents in Graduate Medical Education (GME) training programs accredited by the ACGME to resolve concerns and grievances (referred to herein as concerns ). All GME programs at Inspira will promote fair, reasonable, efficient and equitable resolution of concerns that may arise during residency or fellowship training. Inspira prohibits retaliation against any individual who, in good faith, reportsaconcern or par ticipates in the review or resolution ofaconcern under this policy. Inspira Health Network believes that the training, stipends, and benefits it offers to its residents are competitive with those offered by other programs in this geographic area and inthis industry. If residents have concerns about training or stipends, they are strongly encouraged to voice these concerns openly and directly to their Program director or the DIO. Experience has shown that when residents deal openly and directly with prog ram directors or the DIO the training environment can be excellent, communications can be clear, and attitudes can be positive. We believe that Inspira Health Network amply demonstrates its commitment to residents by responding effectively to resident conc erns. The resident should first attempt to resolve the concern informally by consulting with the 1) chief resident or senior fellow, and the 2) program director. The complai nt or grievance must be in writing with as much detail as possible. If the resident is unable to resolve the concern informally, he or she may submit the concern in writing to the 3 ) Vice -President of Academic Affairs/DIO. The concern should includeadesc ription of the concern and the desired resolution. The Vice -President of Academic Affairs, and the program director will meet with the resident atamutually agreeable time within seven (7) business days (Monday -Friday) of the receipt of the concern, andthereafter withinareasonable amount of time allowing the Vice -President of Academic Affairs sufficient time to fully review and consider the matter will issueawritten decision to the resident regarding the concern, and provideacopy to the program dire ctor. Residents also have the option of utilizing the Compliance at (856) 507 -7857, on the anonymous Compliance hotline (888) 413 -4313, or bye-mailing compliance@ihn.org All reports are treated inaconfidentialfashion and are routed to the institutional compliance officer. Copies of all concerns, review requests and decisions mentioned above will be maintained by the GME Office. Organized, pre -planned (as to not interfere with resident responsibilities) assemb lage of residents is permitted. POLICY & PROCEDURE SUBJECT: GME #14 RESIDENT GRIEVANCES Grievances, 10/5 and No Venting DEPT: RESIDENCY PROG - ADMIN *IHN* POLICY: GME #14 Page 2 of 4 EFFECTIVE Date: 03/01/2021 REVIEW Date: 04/01/2021 RESIDENT GENERAL GRIEVANCE POLICY (also refer to Performance Improvement) Please refer to HR policy# HR.37 *IHN* for the entire Inspira employee policy. The purpose of this policy is to set forthafair, reasonable and rea dily accessible policy for residents in Graduate Medical Education (GME) training programs accredited by the ACGME to resolve concerns and grievances (referred to herein as concerns ). All GME programs at Inspira will promote fair, reasonable, efficient and equitable resolution of concerns that may arise during residency or fellowship training. Inspira prohibits retaliation against any individual who, in good faith, reportsaconcern or par ticipates in the review or resolution ofaconcern under this policy. Inspira Health Network believes that the training, stipends, and benefits it offers to its residents are competitive with those offered by other programs in this geographic area and inthis industry. If residents have concerns about training or stipends, they are strongly encouraged to voice these concerns openly and directly to their Program director or the DIO. Experience has shown that when residents deal openly and directly with prog ram directors or the DIO the training environment can be excellent, communications can be clear, and attitudes can be positive. We believe that Inspira Health Network amply demonstrates its commitment to residents by responding effectively to resident conc erns. The resident should first attempt to resolve the concern informally by consulting with the 1) chief resident or senior fellow, and the 2) program director. The complaint or grievance must be in writing with as much detail as possible. If the resident is unable to resolve the concern informally, he or she may submit the concern in writing to the 3 ) Vice -President of Academic Affairs/DIO. The concern should includeadescription of the concern and the desired resolution. The Vice -President of Academic Affairs, and the program director will meet with the resident atamutually agreeable time within seven (7) business days (Monday -Friday) of the receipt of the concern, and thereafter withinareasonable amount of time allowing the Vice -President of Academic Affairs sufficient time to fully review and consider the matter will issueawritten decision to the resident regarding the concern, and provideacopy to the progr am director. Residents also have the option of utilizing the Compliance at (856) 507 -7857, on the anonymous Compliance hotline (888) 413 -4313, or bye-mailing compliance@ihn.org. All reports are treated inaconfid ential fashion and are routed to the institutional compliance officer. Copies of all concerns, review requests and decisions mentioned above will be maintained by the GME Office. Organized, pre -planned (as to not interfere with resident responsibilities ) assemblage of residents is permitted. POLICY & PROCEDURE SUBJECT: GME #14 RESIDENT GRIEVANCES Grievances, 10/5 and No Venting DEPT: RESIDENCY PROG - ADMIN *IHN* POLICY: GME #14 Page 3 of 4 EFFECTIVE Date: 03/01/2021 REVIEW Date: 04/01/2021 10/5 RULE What is 10/5? At Inspira Health Network, the 10/5 rule: ois used to produce consistent, quality experiences for our patients, their families, and our employees each day. oisasimple method of personal co ntact that supports our mission and vision and allows every employee to anticipateavisitor’s needs (whether that visitor is lost, confused, or simply needing reassurance). oconveys to our patients, visitors, and employees that ―you’re in the right place, with the right team of caregivers!!! Within 10 feet = make eye contact Within 5 feet = acknowledgement the other person “NO VENTING” POLICY At Inspira Health Network there isastrict policy of “No Venting”. QUESTION: What is venting? ANSWER : Venting is when any of us talk about each other inanegative way inapublic space. It can be personal: “I hate working with him”. Or, it can be professional: “She has no idea what to do”. Or “He just started here last week”. It can be interdepartmental: “If they call me one more time asking for something” … or “They take soooo long”. It can be interdisciplinary: “Nursing thinks they can do anything they want around here”. Or “When will the physicians have to do it?” it can be withinateam or department: “Nightshift never has the work station ready when I come in as shift change.” It can be based on workplace frustration: “Here it comes again, more work, fewer people to do it.” Or “We’re short staffed today.” Or “They don’t pay me enough to do this.” These are so me obvious forms of venting that we might hear from our staff. There are other, more subtle (and even innocent -sounding) examples, such as, “I’m sorry, I’ll be right back. I need to see if I can find your chart.” Notice that these phrases probably sound fa miliar. In fact, venting has become so commonplace that we have accepted the comments as the norm, so common in fact that we haveablind spot and most of us don’t even hear the words consciously anymore. At the same time, we’ve forgotten the powerful, neg ative impact these common phrases have on the co -workers, patients, and family members who hear them. Bottom line is that these negative phrases scare and frighten patients, families, other residents and hospital employees. Amid the negative media headlin es espousing the failures of health care, we ourselves contribute to this negative opinion simply by our day-to-day venting. We may also forget that while venting, we are using our time to reinforce the negative instead of recognizing the very important wo rk that we accomplish every single day at our facility. Venting is something we control 100% and can decide to eliminate. POLICY & PROCEDURE SUBJECT: GME #14 RESIDENT GRIEVANCES Grievances, 10/5 and No Venting DEPT: RESIDENCY PROG - ADMIN *IHN* POLICY: GME #14 Page 4 of 4 EFFECTIVE Date: 03/01/2021 REVIEW Date: 04/01/2021 QUESTION : Are you trying to suppress my freedom of speech? ANSWER: As citizens living in the United States of America, we are en titled to free speech publicly. As resident physicians of this facility, we are bound by our mission, our training program objectives, and the expectations that are set for our behavior at all locations. The expectation is that the use of any words, phrase s, or communication that cause anxiety and distress to patients, families, fellow residents or hospital employees will not be tolerated at any level, from any resident or employee, at any time. QUESTION: How will I be held accountable to No Venting? ANSWER: The two most important actions for your personal accountability are: 1.Be aware of your own venting habits. For example, you might ask, “What do I do when I need to get something off my chest?” Most venting is based onafrustration, some ongoing andunresolved complaint, distrust, or job dissatisfaction. Venting typically does nothing to improve the situation, but the venting feels better than nothing. Venting is also easier than facing the challenges of doing something to resolve the issue. Venting is usually complaining, and the venting is typically directed to those least equipped to influence change. If you wantadifference outcome, you have to act differently too. 2.Proactively disengage when others want to vent to you. This isacommon question “What do I do when someone starts venting to me?” This is also the most challenging issue related to venting because most of the time, people only vent with those they trust or see as an ally from whom they expect support. And simply taking the time to lis ten is enough to confirm that you agree with whatever the other person is venting about. The challenge is that most of us in health care tend to be empathetic, and we rarely want to risk offending anyone, especially someone we work with closely every day. In most cases, do your best not to be available as soon as the venting starts. Would it help to be proactive and remind them of No Venting? Yes, but let’s at least start with what we can control. We can disengage our physical presence, and therefore, ourconsent. QUESTION: Does No Venting mean that leadership doesn’t care about my concerns? ANSWER: There isadifference between venting and problem -solving. Venting is typically based on personal feelings being revealed or assumptions being disclosed. Venting is also normally an accumulation of pent -up frustration expressed in general terms like, “We -they, he said/she said, he never, she always, they can’t, it happens all the time”. The intent of venting rarely includes realistic solutions or an actionplan to address the issues. On the other hand, problem -solving requires open, transparent communication. Problem -solving requires problem definition with evidence -based parameters. It is focused on clear expectations, defined roles and responsibilities, and rigorous accountability. Leaders are not expected to react to rumors; they are expected to respond to issues and concerns. There are safe zones in which residents or employees can raise concerns and work, collaboratively, to solve any pressing issues. These safe zones includeasupervisors or manager’s office, Open Forums, and facility -specific committees or task forces. GRADUATE MEDICAL EDUCATION POLICY AND PROCEDURE TITLE: Education and Didactics NO: GME.15 ORIGINATING SOURCE: Graduate Medical Education Effective Date: 05/15/2023 EXECUTIVE APPROVALS: Michael J. Geria, DO, MS, FACOOG (Dist) Vice President of Academic Affairs/DIO P ERSONNEL: Supersedes: 03/07/2022 07/01/2020 Interns Residents Fellows LOCATIONS : Page: 1 of 2 Vineland Mullica Hill Elmer Bridgeton Woodbury COMMITTEE APPROVALS: N/A I.PURPOSE:In compliance with ACGME Common Program Requirements Section IV., CPME accredited programs are expected to define their specific program aims to be consistent with the overall mission of their SponsoringInstitution, the needs of the community they serve and that their gra duates will serve, and the distinctive capabilities of physicians it intends to graduate. II.FORMS/ATTACHMENTS:None III.EQ UIPMENT/SUPPLIES:N/A IV.POLICY:The GME department, and Medical Staff of Inspira Health Network, strive to provide quality educationalexperiences for all residents and medical staff. These experiences include but are not limited to MorningReport, Tumor Board, CME lectures and symposia, and departmental lectures. A ttendance for residents is mandatory depending on the service assignment. Residents are to be released fromservice responsibilities to attend these programs inatimely fashion; attendance policies are Program specific,but 100% attendance is expecte d. R egarding the Core Competencies, attendance would be fall under the categories of Medical Knowledge,Patient Care, Practice Based Learning and Professionalism. Of these, Professionalism is of specialimportance. A great deal of time and effort go into developing these activities. Any unexcused absence or tardiness is extremely rude and unprofessional. A ttendance is documented by sign in sheets or electronically and kept on file by the GME office. These sheetswill only be available until the start of the lecture. V.S COPE:All Inspira Health Network GME programs’ curriculum must contain the following educational components:A set of program aims consistent with the Sponsoring Institution’s mission, the needs of the community itserves, and the desired distinctive capabilities of its graduates; the pro gram’s aims must be made available to : •P rogram applicants Education and Didactics GME:15 Page 2 of 2 •Residents and fellows•Faculty members Competency-based goals and objectives for each educational experience designed to promote progress onatrajectory to autonomous practice These must be distributed and made available to residents/fellows and faculty members to review. D elineation of resident responsibilities for patient care, progressive responsibility for patientmanagement, and graded supervision. A broad range of structured didactic activities:oResidents and fellows must be provided with protected time in which to participate in coredidactic activiti es A dvancement of residents’ and fellows’ knowledge of ethical principles foundational to medicalprofessionalism. A dvancement in the residents’ and fellows’ knowledge of the basic principles of scientific inquir y,including how research is designed, conducted, evaluated, explained to patients, and applied to patientcare. P lease refer to individual service descriptions for more details. V I.REFERENCES: Accred itation Council for Graduate Medical Education, Institutional Requirements : Revision September 26, 2021; effective July 1, 2022 T he Council on Podiatric Medical Education (CPME), CPME 330, Procedures for Approval of Podiatric Residencies: April 2022GRADUATE MEDICAL EDUCATION POLICY AND PROCEDURE TITLE: Core Competency Compliance, Milestones, and Evaluations NO: GME.16 ORIGINATING SOURCE: Graduate Medical Education Effective Date: 06/01/2023 EXECUTIVE APPROVALS: Michael J. Geria, DO, MS, FACOOG (Dist) Vice President of Academic Affairs/DIO PERSONNEL: Supersedes: 03/07/2022 07/01/2020 Interns Residents Fellows LOCATIONS : Page: 1 of 4 Vineland Mullica Hill Elmer Bridgeton Woodbury COMMITTEE APPROVALS: N/A I.PURPOSE: All residents at Inspira Health Network are expected to strive for excellence in the six core competencies : •Patient Care and Procedural Skills,•Medical Knowledge,•Practice-Based Learnin g, •Interpersonal Skills,•Professionalism, •S ystems-based Practice E valuation in each of these areas will determine resident advancement or need for remediation. Residents will be evaluated by multiple methods including but not limited to: End of Service Evaluations, Faculty Meetings, Peer Reviews, 360 Degree evaluations and Patient Surveys. R esidents will have access to their training evaluations, as well as the opportunity to evaluate the program, faculty, and specific rotations. Evaluations are completed through the New Innovations Software. II.F ORMS/ATTACHMENTS:New Innovations Evaluations - https://www.new-innov.com/login Mi lestones - https://apps.acgme.org/ads/Program/Milestone/Milestone III.EQUIPMENT/SUPPLIES:N/A IV.POLICY: The ACGME and CPME require the DIO and program directors to implement training, and programevaluators to assess the Core Competencies in all training programs. •Med ical knowledge:Residents are expected to demonstrate and apply knowledge of accepted standards of clinical medicinein their respective specialty area, remain current with new developments in medicine, and participate in life-long learning activities, including research. Core Competency Compliance, Milestones, and Evaluations GME:16 Page 2 of 4 •Patient care and Procedural Skills:Residents must demonstrate the ability to effectively treat patien ts, provide medical care that incorporates patient empathy, awareness of behavioral issues, the incorporation of preventive medicine, and health promotion. Residents must be able to perform all medical, diagnostic, andsurgical procedures considered essential for the area of practice. •Interpersonal and communication skills:Residents are expected to demonstrate interpersonal and communication skills that enable them toestablish and maintain professional relationships with patients, families, and other members of healthcareteams. •P rofessionalism:Residents are expected to uphold the highest standards in the conduct of their professional activitiesthat promote advocacy of patient welfare, adherence to ethical principles, and collaboration with healthprofessionals, life-long learning, and sensitivity toadiverse patient populatio n. R esidents should be cognizant of their own physical and mental health to care effectively for patients. T his includes the recognition that under certain circumstances, the interests of the patient may be best served by transitioning care to another provider. Examples include fatigue, conflict, or duality of interest, not connecting well withapatient, or when another physician would be better for the situationbased on skill set or knowledge base. •P ractice-based learning and improvements:Residents must demonstrate the ability to critically evaluate their methods of clinical practice,integrate evidence-based medicine into patient care, show an understanding of research methods, andi mprove patient care practices. •S ystem-based practice:Residents are expected to demonstrate an understanding of health care delivery systems, provideeffective and qualitative patient care within the system, and practice cost -effective medicine.•Osteopathic philosophy, principles, and manipulative treatment: (O steopathically Recognized Programs) V.P ROCEDURE: R esidents are expected to demonstrate and apply knowledge of accepting standards in OsteopathicManipulative Treatment (OMT) appropriate to their specialty. The educational goal is to trainaskilledand com petent osteopathic practitioner who remains dedicated to life -long learning and to practice habitsin os teopathic philosophy and manipulative medicine. Osteopathic concepts arealso incorporated into all the above competencies. The core competencies shall be taught and assessed throughout the year byavariety of methods. M ILESTONES When the ACGME made the move to continuous accreditation, specialty groups worked together to developoutcomes-based Milestones asaframework for determining resident and fellow performance within the six ACGME Core Competencies.Core Competency Compliance, Milestones, and Evaluations GME:16 Page 3 of 4 What are Milestones? Simply defined,amilestone isasignificant point in development. The Milestones are competency -based developmental outcomes (e.g., knowledge, skills, attitudes, and performanc e) that can be demonstrated progressively by residents and fellows from the beginni ng of their education through graduation to the unsupervised practice of their specialties. Who developed the Milestones? Each specialty’s Milestones Working Group was co -convened by the ACGME and relevant American Board of Medical Specialties (ABMS) specialty board(s), and was composed of ABMS specialty board representatives, program director association members, specialty college members, ACGME Review Committee members, residents, fellows, and others. Why Milestones? First and foremost, the Milestones are designed to help all residencies and fellowships produce highly competent physicians to meet the health and health care needs of the public. How are the Milestones used by the ACGME? Resident/fellow performance on the Milestones providesasource of specialty -specific data for each specialty Review Committees to use in assessing the quality of residency and fellowship programs nationally, and for programs to use in facilitating improvements to curricula and resident performance when needed. The Milestones are also used by the ACGME to demonstrate accountability of the effectiveness of GME within ACGME-accredited programs in meeting the needs of the public. Milestone Reporting: Refer to: http://www.acgme.org/Portals/0/MilestonesGuidebook.pdf for complete guide to Milestones. General Description of Milestone Levels: Core Competency Compliance, Milestones, and Evaluations GME:16 Page 4 of 4 Be sure to review your specialty Milestones on an ongoing basis, especially at the start of each academic year, to deepen your understanding of the Milestones to help in your own professional development. Performaself-assessment twiceayear around the same time your program’s Clinical C ompetency Committee (CCC) meets. Review and compare your self-assessment with the CCC Milestone ratings with your program director, faculty advisor, or mentor. W rite an individualized learning plan at least twiceayear, and discuss it with your program dire ctor, faculty advisor, or mentor. T he following isalist of assessment methods that may be used, (based upon the ACGME Toolbox of Assessment Methods”) but not limited to: •Record Review•Procedure, Operative, or Case Logs•Written Exam (ABFM)•Simulation & Models (Procedure Workshops)•360-Degree Evaluation•Standardized Patient Exam (Pelvic Workshop)•Direct Observation V I.REFERENCES: A ccreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education, Institutional Requirements : Revision September 26, 2021; effective July 1, 2022 T he Council on Podiatric Medical Education (CPME), CPME 330, Procedures for Approval of Podiatric Residencies: April 2022GRADUATE MEDICAL EDUCATION POLICY AND PROCEDURE TITLE: The Resident Learning and Work Environment NO: GME.17 ORIGINATING SOURCE: Graduate Medical Education Effective Date: 06/01/2023 EXECUTIVE APPROVALS: Michael J. Geria, DO, MS, FACOOG (Dist) Vice President of Academic Affairs/DIO PERSONNEL: Supersedes: 03/07/2022 07/01/2020 Interns Residents Fellows LOCATIONS : Page: 1 of 3 Vineland Mullica Hill Elmer Bridgeton Woodbury COMMITTEE APPROVALS: N/A I.PURPOSE:The purpose of this policy is to support the physical and emotional well- being of resident physicians at Inspira Health Network programs, promoting an educational environment, and facilitate safe patient care. Inspira Health Network will ensure that residents are givenawork environment conducive to proper patient careand optimal resident education opportunities. The GME office will ensure that: Residents are supervised by attending physicians and other qualified healthcare providers who can provide anoptimal learning experience.Each residency program consistently meets residents’ needs relative to hours, call schedules of residentsand attending physicians, and continuity of care.Residents are provided with coverage options when patient care related responsibilities become difficult or prolonged for any reason.Residents will be given access to areas of the hospital in which breaks, or periods of rest can be taken periodically.The GMEC will be responsible for ensuring that resident hours adhere to the guidelines established by GME policy # 20. II.FO RMS/ATTACHMENTS:None III.EQ UIPMENT/SUPPLIES:N/A IV.PO LICY:Inspira Health Network will regularly monitor clinical and educational hours for compliance with this Policy andthe ACGME Institutional and Program Requirements and CPME regulations. Ma ximum Hours of Clinical and Educational Work per Week: Clinical and educational work hours must be limited to no more than 80 hours per week, averaged overafour-week period, inclusive of all in-house clinical and educational activities, clinical work done from home, and all moonlighting. V.PRO CEDURE:Scheduling: While the ACGME acknowledges that, on rare occasions,aresident may work in excess of 80-hours inagiven week, all programs and residents utilizing this flexibility will be required to adhere to the 80-hour maximum weekly limit when averaged overafour-week period. Programs that regularly schedule residents to work 80 hours per week and still permit residents to remain beyond their scheduled work period are likely to exceed the The Resident Learning and Work Environment GME:17 Page 2 of 3 80-hour maximum, which would not be in substantial compliance with the requirement. These programs should adjust schedules so that residents are scheduled to work fewer than 80 hours per week, which would allow residents to remain beyond their scheduled work period when needed without violating the 80-hour requirement. Programs may wish to consider using night float and/or adjusting the frequency of in-house call to ensure compliance with the 80-hour maximum weekly limit. Work from Home: While the requirement specifies that clinical work done from home must be counted toward the 80-hour maximum weekly limit, the expectation remains that scheduling be structured so that residents are able to complete most work on site during scheduled clinical work hours without requiring them to take work home. Mandatory Time Free of Clinical Work and Education: The program must design an effective program structure that is configured to provide residents with educational opportunities, as well as reasonable opportunities for rest and personal well-being. Residents should have eight hours off between scheduled clinical work and education periods. T here may be circumstances when residents choose to stay to care for their patients or return to the hospital with fewer than eight hours free of clinical experience and education. This must occur within the context of the 80-hour and the one-day-off-in-seven requirements. R esidents must have at least 14-hours free of clinical work and education after 24 hours of in-house call. Residents must be scheduled foraminimum of one day in seven free of clinical work and required education (when averaged over four weeks). At-homecall cannot be assigned on these free days. Maximum Clinical Work and Education Period Length: Clinical and educational work periods for residents must not exceed 24-hours of continuous scheduled clinical assignments. Up to four hours of additional time may be used for activities related to patient safety, such as providing effective transitions of care, and/or resident education. Additional patient care responsibilities must not be assigned toaresident during this time. Clinical and Educational Work Hour Exceptions In rare circumstances, after handing off all other responsibilities,aresident, on their own initiative, may elect to remain or return to the clinical site in the following circumstances: •to continue to provide care toasingle severely ill or unstable patient.•humanistic attention to the needs ofapatient or family; or,•to attend unique educational events.These additional hours of care or education will be counted toward the 80-hour weekly limit. A Review Committee may grant rotation-specific exceptions for up to 10 percent oramaximum of 88 clinical and educational work hours to individual programs based onasound educational rationale. Prior to submitting the request to the Review Committee, the program director must obtain approval from the Sponsoring Institution’s GMEC and DIO. M oonlighting: Moonlighting must not interfere with the ability of the resident to achieve the goals and objectives of the educational program and must not interfere with the resident’s fitness for work nor compromise patient safety. •Time spent by residents in internal and external moonlighting must be counted toward the 80-hour maximum weekly limit.•PGY-1 residents are not permitted to moonlight.The Resident Learning and Work Environment GME:17 Page 3 of 3 In-House Night Float Night float must occur within the context of the 80-hour and one-day-off-in-seven requirements. Maximum In-House On-Call Frequency Residents must be scheduled for in-house call no more frequently than every third night (when averaged overafour-week period). At-Home Call Time spent on patient care activities by residents on at-home call must count toward the 80-hour maximum weekly limit. The frequency of at-home call is not subject to the every-third-night limitation but must satisfy the requirement for one day in seven free of clinical work and education, when averaged over four weeks. At-home call must not be so frequent or taxing as to preclude rest or reasonable personal time for each resident. Residents are permitted to return to the hospital while on at- home call to provide direct care for new or established patients. These hours of inpatient patient care must be included in the 80-hour maximum weekly limit. V I.REFERENCES: A ccreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education, Institutional Requirements: Revision September 26, 2021; effective July 1, 2022 T he Council on Podiatric Medical Education (CPME), CPME 330, Procedures for Approval of Podiatric Residencies: April 2022GRADUATE MEDICAL EDUCATION POLICY AND PROCEDURE TITLE: Moonlighting Policy for Tra inee NO : GME.19 ORIGINATING SOURCE: Graduate Medical Education Effective Date: 05/30/2023 EXECUTIVE APPROVALS: Michael J. Geria, DO, MS, FACOOG (Dist) Vice President of Academic Affairs/DIO PER SONNEL: Supersedes: 03/07/2022 07/01/2020 Interns Residents Fellows LOCATIONS : Page: 1 of 2 Vineland Mullica Hill Elmer Bridgeton Woodbury COMMITTEE APPROVALS: N/A I.PURPOSE: The purpose of this policy is the expectation that the Graduate Medical Education (GME) Office maintainapolicy regarding professional activities outside the educational program per Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME) Institutional Require ments and The Council on Podiatric Medical Education (CPME). II.FORMS/ATTACHMENTS:None III.EQUIPMENT/SUPPLIES:N/A IV.PO LICY:The Graduate Medical Education Committee (GMEC) reco gnizes that moonlighting is not an activity associated with part of the formal education experience. Moonlighting isaprivilege notaright and can be revoked at any time. The resident must be in good academic standing and must, at all times put their residencyduties first. Moonlighting must not interfere with work hour restrictions and must not contribute to resident fatigue or burnout for the safety of the residents and the patients the resident will be encountering. V.PRO CEDURE: 1. All moonlighting shifts MUST be approved prior to the shift. Ideally this is 2 weeks in advance, however there is an understanding that shifts may become available, and the resident may be able to moonlight at short term notice HOWEVER the program director must be notified prior to ensure resident work hours are not violated. Failure to do so will result in moonlighting privileges being revoked. 2. All moonlighting shifts must be logged in New Innovations. 3. Each program has more specific standards as to maximum moonlighting hours and rotations wheremoonlighting is not permitted. Please see specialty specific guidelines but under no circumstances should the 80-hour work week be violated. 4. Residents are not permitted to “double dip”. During normal work hours if you are scheduled to be on rotation you must not excuse yourself. For example, if on Tuesday you are scheduled to be in clinic, but Moonlighting Policy for Trainees GME:19 Page 2 of 2 your preceptor is on vacation, then this does not constitutea“free day.” You must report to GME for reassignment of duties. 5. Any resident that is found to be moonlighting during normal work hours when he or she hasnot filed the proper process for PTO will have their moonlighting privileges revoked and further disciplinary actions asdeemed necessary by the Program Director and DIO up to and including dismissal from the residencytraining program. (Also refer to Program Specific Moonlighting Policy) 6. Failure to comply with the above set rules and restrictions or recognition of resident fatigue, failure to fulfill resident duties or for any other reason deemed by the program director will result in loss of moonlighting privileges. Residents must provide proof of medical malpractice coverage for any moonlighting activities. Themalpractice coverage provided to residents by Inspira Health Network as part of the formal residencytraining program does not extend to any “outside” moonlighting activities with exception of when theyw ork at Inspira Urgent Care, or moonlight for the Hospital, other than that they are responsible for theirown coverage 7. PGY1 Residents cannot Moonlight. VI.REFERENCES: Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education, Institutional Requirements: Revision September 26, 2021; effective July 1, 2022 T he Council on Podiatric Medical Education (CPME), CPME 330, Procedures for Approval of Podiatric Residencies: April 2022GRADUATE MEDICAL EDUCATION POLICY AND PROCEDURE TITLE: Resident Wellness: Resident Fatigue Awareness and Prevention NO: GME.20 ORIGINATING SOURCE: Graduate Medical Education Effective Date: 06/01/2023 EXECUTIVE APPROVALS: Michael J. Geria, DO, MS, FACOOG (Dist) Vice President of Academic Affairs/DIO P ERSONNEL: Supersedes: 03/07/2022 07/01/2020 Interns Residents Fellows LOCATIONS : Page: 1 of 5 Vineland Mullica Hill Elmer Bridgeton Woodbury COMMITTEE APPROV ALS: N/A I.PURPOSE:In the current healthcare environment, residents and faculty members are at increased risk for burnout and depression. Psychological, emotional, and physical well-being are critical in the development of the competent, caring, and resilient physician. Self-care is an important component of professionalism; it is alsoaskill that must be learned and nurtured in the context of other aspects of residency training. II.FORMS/ATTACHMENTS:None III.EQUIPMENT/SUPPLIES:N/A IV.POLICY:Inspira Health Network is committed to enhance the meaning that each resident finds in the experience of beingaphysician including, but not limited to: ➢ protecting time with patients ➢ minimizing non-physician obligations ➢ providing administrative support ➢ promoting progressive autonomy and flexibility ➢ enhancing professional relationships ➢ attention to scheduling, work intensity, and work compression that impacts resident well-being ➢ evaluating workplace safety data and addressing the safety of residents and faculty members ➢ policies and programs that encourage optimal resident and faculty member well-being Residents are given the opportunity to attend medical, mental health, and dental care appointments, including those scheduled during their working hours. They also have free access to the Inspira Health Network Fitness Connection to maintain their health and fitness. Residents and faculty are required to attend lectures and do modules that focus on burnout, physician wellness and recognizing physician impairment. V.PROCEDURE:Each program hasaresident who sits on the Well-being Resident Committee. This resident can bring concerns about well-being, workplace safety, burnout, and any other issues to the committee. A designated committee member will bring these concerns to the DIO and or program director. Each Program will have at Resident Wellness: Resident Fatigue Awareness and Prevention GME:20 Page 2 of 5 least one resident representative, and one faculty representative. There are circumstances in which residents may be unable to attend work, including but not limited to fatigue, illness, and family emergencies. During this time, the chief resident in accordance with the program director will find coverage for the resident during this time without fear of punishment or negative consequences. Residents are given the opportunity (within policy guideli nes) to attend medical, mental health, and dental care appointments, including those scheduled during their work hours, with prior approval, without fear of retaliation. Whenaresident or faculty member suspects another resident is depressed, anxious, suffering from any other mental illness, abusing drugs or alcohol, or is impaired in any other way the resident or faculty member should alert the program director. The program director will provide access to appropriate tools for self-screening and provide access to confidential, affordable mental health assessment, counseling, and treatment from Care Bridge Support Phone:1-800-437-0911, Access Code: AGCA8, Inspira Urgent Cares or ER services. If the program director feels the resident is not suitable to perform patient duties the resident will be placed onapaid leave of absence. A ll residents and faculty members must demonstrate responsiveness to patient needs that supersedes self - interest. They must recognize that under certain circumstances, thebest interests of the patient may be served by transitioning that patient’s care to another qualified and rested provider. There isagrowing awareness that fatigue has an adverse effect on performance. Symptoms of fatigue and/ or stress are normal and expected to occur periodically during residency as well as after, just as it would in other professional settings. In residency training, impaired performance means missed opportunities for learning and the potential of harm to patients. Faculty and residents shall be educated to recognize the signs of fatigue. Policies and procedures shall be developed to prevent and counteract the potential negative effects of fatigue. Every faculty member and resident will receiveacopy of the policy. A ll training programs are required to educate faculty and residents to recognize the signs of fatigue and apply policies to prevent and counteract their potential negative effects. ➢ Responsible Parties: faculty and residents of Inspira Health Network, Graduate MedicalEducation Department. ➢ Inspira Health Network Resources: Attending physicians or designated covering physicians,and program director are available 24 hours/day. ➢ Signs of Fatigue Include: Involuntary nodding off, waves of sleepiness, problems focusin g, lethargy, irritability, labile mood, poor coordination, difficulty with short -term recall, tardiness or absences at work, inattentiveness to details, impaired awareness (falling back on rote memory).Fatigued residents typically have difficulty with appreciatingacom plex situation while avoiding distraction, keeping track of the current situation, and updating strategies, thinking laterally and being innovative, assessing risk and/ or anticipating consequence, maintaining interest in outcome, cont rolling mood, and avoiding inappropriate behavior. High Risk times for fatigue-related symptoms: midnight to 6 am, early hours of day shift, first night shift or call night afterabreak, change of service, first 2 to 3 hours ofashift or end of shift, ear ly in residency or when new toanight call. •Processes to limit fatigue-related problems include: 80-hour work week (60 hours for EmergencyMed icine) Many physical illnesses can present as fatigue and should be ruled out when daytimeResident Wellness: Resident Fatigue Awareness and Prevention GME:20 Page 3 of 5 fatigue seems out of proportion to the resident workload through medical evaluation with possible sleep study. Depression and other psychiatric syndromes may first be manifested as fatigue. Proper diagnosis and treatment are needed. Prevention The Inspira Health Network Graduate Medical EducationProgram: a.Incorporates discussions regarding the management of fatigue into the program conference curriculum for both faculty and residents.b. Monitors resident and program compliance with Institutional and Program-specific duty hour policiesc.Protects periods designed to address sleep debt (i.e., the ACGME Duty Hour Po licy) d.Where appropriate, assist residents to identify co-existent medical issues which impair their sleep (i.e.,undiagnosed sleep disorder, depression, stress)e.Provides safe and secure call rooms for residents on call or who elect to rest before driving post -call. f.Arrange for transportation of residents that have been identified as being too fatigued to drive. ( If no one is available to transport the resident to home,ataxicab will be provi ded at the hospital expense. Inspira will also pay for the ride back to work. Taxi, Uber, or Lyft, must show receipts etc.) Fitness Connection As part of the Resident Wellness initiative all Inspira residents have access to the Inspira Health Network “Fitness Connection” free of charge. Present your Inspira ID at the main desk and identify yourself asaresident. The staff will know what to do. If you are currently paying for the membership, please do the same and you will no longer be charged. If you experience any difficulties, please contact the GME office. Recognition Restricting duty hours alone does not preclude fatigue. The Inspira Health Network Graduate Medical Education Program must identify the presence and effects of persistent fatigue and st rategies to ameliorate the impact. We havearesponsibility to ensure that faculty and residents are educated to become knowledgeable about sleep science as it applies to resident performance and health. Resident stress may increase if residents are concerned about losing significant learning opportunities, procedural experience, and interaction with colleagues. Residents may feel support is lacking from senior residents and faculty who may have an inadequate understanding of the rules surrounding duty hour mandates. Ashas been reported widely, fatigue, like the effects of alcohol, slows reaction time, saps energy, diminishes attention to detail and degrades communication, and decision- making skills---all things that hinder patient safety and the safety of our residents. Fatigue, called by some authors “excessive daytime sleepiness”, may be due toavariety of factors. These may exist alone or in combination and include too little sleep, fragmented sleep, disruption of the circadian rhythm (such as may occur with night float work), other conditions which may masquerade as fatigue such as anxiety, depression, thyroid disease or other medical conditions, or medical side effects, primary sleep disorders. T oo little sleep may be the most common reason for sleepiness among residents, occurring when residents get less sleep than optimal. Although there is individual variation, most adults require an average of 8 hours of sleep each night. Residents may not have developed good sleep habits in college and medic al school for adequate sleep even on their nights off. Further, sleep deprived subjects are often unaware of the severe degradation of their decision-making skills. Resident Wellness: Resident Fatigue Awareness and Prevention GME:20 Page 4 of 5 Resident Self-Care Residents need to consider the following: a.Refrain from driving if drowsy; contact resident leadership to arrange for transportation, if necessary, utilize one of the call rooms to takeanap prior to driving, and/or pull over and takeanap if necessaryb. Become educated and learn to recognize the signs of fatigue. Do not be embarras sed to discuss th ese issues openly.c. Make sleepapriority; be appropriately selfish about needed sleep time. Excessive fatigue can affectevery facet of life.d.Keep to routine as much as possible.e.Get adequate exercise but avoid exercising directly beforesleep. f.Protect sleep time. Turn off phone. Ask your family/significant others, friends to help you. Makeefforts not to incurasleep debt from non-work activities.g.Get as much light exposure as possible when awake. E xcessive fatigue and/ or stress may occur in patient care settings as well as non-patient care settings such as lecture and conference. In patient care settings, patient safety and well- being of the patient mandates implementation of an immediate and proper response sequence. Innon-patient care settings, the response may vary based on the severity of and the demeanor of the resident’s appearance and perceived condition. T he following isageneral guideline for those recognizing or observing excessive resident fatigue and stress. Identification of the fatigued resident when involved in patient care: faculty, residents and other members of the care team are to report such concerns of sleepiness, tardiness, resident absences, inattentiveness, or other indicators of possible fatigue or excessive stress to the supervising attending or Program director. Responsibilities of the Attending Physician: If the attending physician notices evidence of excessive fatigue and/or stress and appears to be disabled, the chief resident or residency director (or his designee) must be called, and the resident should be released from any further patient care responsibilities at time of recognition. Ifasupervising resident notices this, he or she must make the attending aware so that this process may be in itiated. The attending or supervising resident should privately discuss his/ her opinion with the resident, attempt to identify the underlying reason for the fatigue, and discuss the amount of rest needed to alleviate the situation. The resident will be relieved of clinical duties. D ecisions related to staff replacement will consider the remaining staffing level and volume and acuity of patients. T he resident should rest at the hospital (call room) prior to driving home. In addition, the reside nt should be advised that someone should pick him/ her up for transportation home. If no one is available to transport the resident to home,ataxicab will be provided at the hospital expense. Inspira will also pay for the ride back to work. Taxi, Uber, or Lyft, must show receipts etc. T he resident who has been released from further patient care cannot appeal the decision and must have permission to resume work from the supervising attending or residency Program director. Resident Wellness: Resident Fatigue Awareness and Prevention GME:20 Page 5 of 5 Responsibilities of the Residents: Other residents who noticeacolleague’s fatigue have the professional responsibility to notify the supervising attending, chief resident, or residency program director without fear of reprisal. A resident who feels fatigued has the professional responsibility to notify the supervising attending, chief resident, or residency program director without fear of reprisal. Additional Responsibilities of the Program Director : If the removed resident’s absence results in immediate impact on other residents, this sho uld be accounted for immediately and resolved where required. The resident’s schedule, patient care responsibilities, and personal problems/ stressors will be discussed. When necessary, the rotation will be reviewed for potential changes. If the problem is recurrent or not resolved inatimely manner, the resident may be removed from patient care responsibilities indefinitely. A medical evaluation may be requested or required as the situations warrant. VI.REFERENCES:Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education, Institutional Requirements: Revision September 26, 2021; effective July 1, 2022 T he Council on Podiatric Medical Education (CPME), CPME 330, Procedures for Approval of Podiatric Residencies: April 2022Online Learning Modules Resident Research Modules The Resident Research Training Modules were developed by Michigan State University to assist residents in the basics of medical research. The online modules discuss research inastepwise self-directed learning program. These modules are part of the general curriculum for research and are available to all programs. To access the modules: Log into an Inspira computer using your log in credentials.Go to “Documents” then “This “PC”.Click on the “IHN Residents” or “N” drive.Open file labeled “Research Training Course for Residents” HealthStream “HealthStream” is an online platform used by Inspira for various educational activities. There are specific modules required each year to be completed by all employees. The modules are tailored to each employee’s role within the organization. Residents are assigned various modules to be completed at different times throughout the year. Occasionally,aspecific module may be added during the year andadeadline for completion will be sent with the assignment. For the GME program, HealthStream helps meet curricular requirements for various ACGME mandated topics. A ccess to HealthStream: www.healthstream.com/hlc/ihn [healthstream.com] Med IQ “Med IQ” is an online platform used by Inspira for various educational activities. It is mostly used to address topics dealing with ACGME requirements. These topics may or may not be covered in HealthStream. Med IQ gives some insight into topics such as Risk Management, Communication Skills, and Health Care Disparities. Please see the following foralist of topics. Access to Med IQ https://ihn.med-iq.net/Security/Authentication/Login [ihn.med-iq.net]Academic Year Healthstream Modules The following online modules are mandatory for all residents. These modules address many of the topics outlined by the ACGME as required elements of all residency curriculums regardless of specialty. To access these modules, log in on an Inspira computer, click on the “InspiraNet” icon. At the bottom of the page, you will see Healthstream under links. Click on Healthstream INSPIRA COVID-19 SAFE PRACTICES FOR REUSING PPEINSPIRA CPC AwarenessINSPIRA EMTALAINSPIRA Fraud Waste and Abuse TrainingINSPIRA Gender InequityINSPIRA HAND HYGIENEINSPIRA Hospital BraceletsINSPIRA Impaired PractitionerINSPIRA Information Security AwarenessINSPIRA LIFE PROGRAM OVERVIEWINSPIRA MCH LOSSINSPIRA Oxygen Cylinder SafetyINSPIRA RESTRAINTS EDUCATION RESIDENTSINSPIRA Safety CodesINSPIRA SEPSIS EDUCATION CLINICALINSPIRA STANDARD PRECAUTIONS FOR COVID 19INSPIRA STROKE AWARENESSINSPIRA Workplace ViolenceActive Shooter Response in Healthcare Settings - KnowledgeQCultural Competence: Providing Culturally Competent Care (PA) - KnowledgeQDiversity in the Workplace (PA) - KnowledgeQIdentifying and Assessing Victims of Abuse and Neglect (PA) - KnowledgeQSmart Rapid Regulatory Compliance: Licensed Professionals - KnowledgeQ Adaptive LearningWorkplace Violence – KnowledgeQMed IQ Modules PGY1 Infection Control: The Responsibility of Every ProviderSexual Harassment: Applied Concepts in Cultural HumilityEnhancing Care TransitionsResident Fatigue: Risk ManagementNew Provider Pitfalls: Mitigating RisksRacism and Implicit Bias: Legacies and Applied Concepts PGY2 Post-Event Documentation and Compassionate CommunicationCultural Competency: Transgender Issues in HealthcareTeam CommunicationThe Dark Side of Graduate Medical Education: Burnout in Internship, Residency, and FellowshipPHI: Appropriate Access and Digital DistractionsChallenging Resident ParadigmsResident Fatigue: Risk ManagementRacism and Implicit Bias: Legacies and Applied Concepts PGY3+ Surgical Outcomes: Anticipating Risk and Response to Unanticipated EventsRacism and Implicit Bias: Legacies and Applied ConceptsIncidental FindingsVolume 1: Mitigating Risk: Communication Strategies for Providers Experiencing BurnoutandVolume 2: Mitigating Risk: Documentation Strategies for Providers Experiencing BurnoutProfessional Conduct: Patient and Co-Provider ExperiencesNavigating the Attending-Resident DivideResident Fatigue: Risk ManagementGRADUATE MEDICAL EDUCATION POLICY AND PROCEDURE TITLE: Responsibilities of the Resident/Fellow Staff NO: GME.21 ORIGINATING SOURCE: Graduate Medical Education Effective Date: 06/01/2023 EXECUTIVE APPROVALS: Michael J. Geria, DO, MS, FACOOG (Dist) Vice President of Academic Affairs/DIO PERSONNEL: Supersedes: 03/07/2022 07/01/2020 Interns Residents Fellows LOCATIONS : Page: 1 of 4 Vineland Mullica Hill Elmer Bridgeton Woodbury COMMITTEE APPROVALS: N/A I.PURPOSE: This policy defines the responsibilities of Residents/Fellows attending Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME) and The Council on Podiatric Medical Education (CPME ), and Institutional Requirements -accredited graduate medical education programs at Inspira Health Network. The policy also defines Program Leadership responsibilities to maintain specific descriptions for progressively increasing levels of patient care responsibility for Residents, under the supervision of qualified faculty. II.FORMS/ATTACHMENTS:None III.EQUIPMENT/SUPPLIES: N/A IV.POLICY: A.Provide responsible patient care under the authority of members of the medical staff to patientsassigned to their service. The number of patients assigned to the resident shall not exc eed those published by the accrediting body.Be immediately available to provide emergency care during the hours on duty andnight/weekend call unless otherwise specified by the Chief of Service.Provide care for only those patients within the State of NewJersey for whom the resident is directly responsible as directed by the attending physician. The Resident may not providecare out-of-state without proper permission from the GME Office, licensure in that state,and training requirements of that state where service is being completed.Examine all patients admitted to the service as soon after admission as possible, todetermine immediate needs of the patient, and to assess the patient's condition.Performacomplete history and physical examination, which includes an osteopathic structural exam where appropriate, and record such on the chart of all patients assigned tothe service. Responsibilities of the Resident/Fellow Staff GME:21 Page 2 of 4 Writeaproblem-oriented progress note on the patient's EMR chart on admission; dailythereafter, and more often as conditions demand.Write and review admission and daily orders on assigned patients only after review of suchorders with the patient's staff physician.Complete all other medical chart responsibilities on patients seen within 24 hours.Complete all charting responsibilities on the date of discharge.Conduct rounds on all assigned patients at the beginning of and conclusion of duty.Properly report to peers or supervisors at the time of leaving duty and returning to duty toensure continuity of care or at any time thatapatient's condition may warrant.Properly communicate any change in the patient’s condition or changes to plan of care toall those involved in the care of the patient. This includes but is not limited to the attendingphysician, consulting physicians, fellow residents, and nursing.Date and time all materials recorded on the patient's chart.Complete all medical record responsibilities prior to proceeding to the next rotation.Complete all logs and evaluations prior to proceeding to the next rotation, includingACGME Duty Hour requirements. B.A lways conduct oneself inaprofessional manner.Abide by the Bylaws, Rules and Regulations, Policies and Procedures of the ResidencyTraining Program, the department, the medical center, the medical staff, the NewJersey Department of Health, State Board of Medical Examiners, and the Code of Ethics of the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Educationacurrently exist and as they fromtime to time may be amended.Accept patient care responsibilities and additional call (not to exceed the current work hourlimit) as assigned by the Vice-President of Academic Affairs, program director, other staff in the office of Graduate Medical Education or chief resident.Dress Code: All residents are expected to maintain high professional standards of dress andbehavior. Appropriate male attire includes button down shirt, trousers (not blue jeans), anda white lab coat, or program defined equivalent with name tag and identification badge.Appropriate female attire includes dresses, skirts or slacks with tops, andawhite lab coatwith name tag and identification badge. No sandals or open toed shoes are allowed.Personal scrub suits are permitted to be worn on specific rota tions. Scrub suits are the property of the medical center and are to be worn only when required in the medical center.Scrub suits are not to be worn outside the medical center unless specifically instructed to doso by the hospital. Please refer to Inspira Health Network Dress Code.C.Provide clinical teaching and direct supervision to all students assigned to the Service.Review, correct and approve all materials entered by the student on the appropriate historyand physical form and progress record.Specifically review all student-performed history and physical exams, editing and commenting on the recorded observations.Constructively teach from clinical resources available on the service.Responsibilities of the Resident/Fellow Staff GME:21 Page 3 of 4 D.Participate in all assigned quality assurance activities of the hospital or medical staff, and asspecifically assigned.E.Attend assigned formal teaching programs and scheduled meetings with administrators of theProgram.Attend 100% of Core Lecture Series, unless otherwise specified by Program.Attend 100% of the department formal education programs while assigned to the se rvice.Sign the Attendance Sheet at every program/meeting or provide proof of attendance.Remediate (by assignment of the Program director) any lecture not attended.Obtain excused absence from the program director for any departmental formal educationprograms. F.P rovide written documentation and obtain written approval from the Office of Graduate MedicalEducation for the following:legitimate illnessespersonal days,compensatory days,vacation days,requests to attend conferences, CME programs, etc., whichwill require your absence,changes in your rotation schedule,changes in the on-call schedule,other leaves or absences other than scheduled vacation weeks. Approvals must be made inadvance. In the case of illness or personal tragedy, notification as so on as possible is required. G.R esidents must notify the Office of Graduate Medical Education in writing and in advance forthe need of verification of malpractice insurance; verification of enrollment for loan defermentsor permit/licensing information; or other similar requests. H.T he Resident is responsible for completing any evaluation forms that are required by theprogram, ACGME, CPME, or any other governing or certifying body or organization within therequired time. These forms are needed for conducting periodic appraisals as well as graduationfrom the training program. Submit all reports on the quality of the faculty, quality of the trainingprogram, and registry of educational experiences (performance evaluations, program serviceevaluations and clinical logs) onatimely basis. I.S ervice/Faculty Evaluation by Resident: Constructive critique by the Resident of the service andof the faculty. (TO BE COMPLETED AND RETURNED WITHIN FIFTEEN (5) DAYS OFTHE LAST DAY OF THE ROTATION).Responsibilities of the Resident/Fellow Staff GME:21 Page 4 of 4 J.Residents who are dissatisfied with the performance evaluation of their service rotation mayappeal the evaluation. The Resident should first notify the Office of Graduate Medical Educationof his/her request to challenge the evaluation. The GME staff will then inform the ser vice attending of the Resident's wish to challenge the evaluation and will make an appointment todiscuss the evaluation with the attending physician and the Resident. A Resident who disagreeswith an evaluation shall be allowed to submit written comments whichshall become part of the evaluation and placed in the Resident's permanent file. K.R esidents are released from service to attend their graduation ceremony. Residents are expected to attend asarequirement of the program. Any excused absence must be approved by the Office of Graduate Medical Education. Failure to complete any of the responsibilities noted above canbe considered asafirst offense for Corrective Action as outlined in these Rules and Regulations and may lead to suspension from the program forasecond offense. V. P ROCEDURE:If the resident is on an “off-site” rotation, and for any reason the site or attending is closed/not available,i.e., holidays, then the resident is expected to report to their program director or the GME coordinatorsfor instruction. Program Managers will contact outpatient rotations/site during the holidays to find outtheir availability. Under no circumstances should the resident assume that they can takeaPTO day. T he program director or GME Office may become aware of the occurrence of an unexcused absence or absences at any time after the absence(s) has happened. Notification most commonly occurs at the end ofarotation where absences have occurred. It is also common for unexcused abs ences from assignments to be discovered much later. T he program director or GME Office may become aware of unexcused absence/s from multiple sources such as rotation supervisors, rotation staff, faculty, or other residents. Whether the unexcused absence, isahalf-day or portion ofaday it is still an unexcused absence. This does not excuse the absence;aresidency experience is still missed and is unexcused. Once the program director or GME Office is informed ofapossible unexcused absence, it takes time for the program to contact and communicate with those involved such as the informant, program administrator and rotation supervisors. In the event the program director and/or GME office becomes aware of and confirms that unexcused absence(s) have occurred, appropriate action will be taken by the program. VI. REFERENCES: Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education, Institutional Requirements: Revision September 26, 2021; effective July 1, 2022 The Council on Podiatric Medical Education (CPME), CPME 330, Procedures for Approval of Podiatric Residencies: April 2022GRADUATE MEDICAL EDUCATION POLICY AND PROCEDURE TITLE: Schedules NO: GME.22 ORIGINATING SOURCE: Graduate Medical Education Effective Date: 06/01/20 23 EXECUTIVE APPROVALS: Michael J. Geria, DO, MS, FACOOG (Dist) Vice President of Academic Affairs/DIO PERSONNEL: Supersedes: 03/07/2022 07/01/2020 Interns Residents Fellows LOCATIONS : Page: 1 of 3 Vineland Mullica Hill Elmer Bridgeton Woodbury COMMITTEE APPROVALS: N/A I.PURPOSE:The purpose of this Schedule Policy is to ensures that residents and fellows participating in Programs(individuallya“resident” or collectively “residents”) understand the definition of the schedules or clinicalassignments for ACGME accredited or CPME regulated graduate medical educationprogram sponsored by IHN. II.FORMS/ATTACHMENTS:None III.EQ UIPMENT/SUPPLIES:N/A IV.POLICY:Each Program is required to establish and maintainawritten policy governing resident Clinical and EducationalWork Hours consistent with this Policy and ACGME Institutional, Common Program and Specialty/Subspecialtyrequirements applicable to the Program. T his policy is specifying the schedule definitions and procedures. V.P ROCEDURE: R otation Schedules The monthly rotation schedules are available through the GME office, on the hospital intranet., and on NewInnovations. All rotations, except for Night Float begin and end on Monday. Please note that you must check withthe chief of the service for the time to report. Service assignments will be available in advance. N ight Float begins on Sunday at 6:00 PM the day preceding the start of the new rotati on. Call Schedules On-call schedules will vary based on the program and rotation. Call schedules are made in advance by the chiefintern or resident. All requests for time off, including vacation, which will affect the call schedule, must be sent tothe chief intern or resident in writing. Rules and Regulations Governing Service Assignments Standard ServicesResidency programs will comply with the standards set forth by the appropriate ACGME and CPME Residency Committee unless changed byaprogram director. All members of the house staff are expectedSchedules GME:22 Page 2 of 3 to be available to their service in-house during these hours unless other arrangements are made and approved by their attending physician. Weekend CoverageResidents must provide coverage for all services unless otherwise directed by the attending physician.Those on weekend coverage may sign out to the on- call intern or resident once released by their attending physician, and no earlier than 5 PM. Weekend coverage will vary by service. E lective Services (When applicable and if available/Program Specific) a.The resident must complete the Elective Request form in full, including providing the educational value of the elective rotation, and preferred schedule for office hours. b.The resident will provide at least 90 days’ lead time in scheduling the rotation, for the required paperwork. c.The Office of Graduate Medical Education must approve the elective service, whichmust be an ACGME or CPME recognized service. d.Using elective time for research must be approved by faculty. e.It is the resident’s responsibility to arrange coverage in advance for clinical duties while they are away, and coverage indicated on the request form. f.Once the above guidelines are met, and the proper signatures obtained the elective approval form will be submitted to the Program Coordinator, andacopy will be given to the resident. g.Residents are not excused from attending didactics, unless pre -approved by the program director. h.IfaResident has not madeachoice of an elective 90 days in advance, the programdirector or Office of Graduate Medical Education will designateaservice and divisionto be covered. This may be altered only by written permission of the program director or Office of Graduate Medical Education and approval by the service that will nolonger be covered. The Office of Graduate Medical E ducation reserves the rightto change or alter service rotations for educational or other purposes. On Call1)In-House Call: Nights, Weekends and Holidaysa)Residents will not leave the hospital while on call unless on home call. Please refer to Programspecific guidelines.b)Call will be assigned from the full Resident group not to exceed the number of calls allow ed bythe current work hour restrictions.c)The Graduate Medical Education staff, Vice-President of Academic Affairs, Program director,and the Chief Residents are empowered with the authority to assign Residents to in- house call to meet patient care standards.2)Regular assignments to in-house call shall not exceed in excess of an average of every third night ineach and every 30-day period, Per ACGME Policy. 3)In cases of emergency, where it is deemed necessary for patient care standards to be met, the ChiefResident, Program director, and Vice-President of Academic Affairs have the authority to request aResident not in-house to be on-call and to respond if needed. 4)All hospital duties and regulations regarding call must be adhered to strictly.5)If patient care demands so dictate, the staff in the Office of Graduate Medical Education areauthorized to give weekdays off in lieu of scheduling weekend duty so long as such scheduling does not significantly affect the educational aspects of the Resident's experience.6) Emergency/Unusual Situation; The Vice-President of Academic Affairs, and program director, havethe responsibility of ensuring the educational experienc es of the Resident and the patient care obligation of the medical center. As such, he/she is authorizedto temporarily alter any schedule to ensureabetter educational experience or to provide emergency patient care.Schedules GME:22 Page 3 of 3 VI.REFERENCES: Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education, Institutional Requirements : Revision September 26, 2021; effective July 1, 2022 The Council on Podiatric Medical Education (CPME), CPME 330, Procedures for Approval of Podiatric Residencies: April 2022GRADUATE MEDICAL EDUCATION POLICY AND PROCEDURE TITLE: General Medical Rules and Regulations NO: GME.23 ORIGINATING SOURCE: Graduate Medical Education Effective Date: 06/01/2023 EXECUTIVE APPROVALS: Michael J. Geria, DO, MS, FACOOG (Dist) Vice President of Academic Affairs/DIO PERSONNEL: Supersedes: 03/07/2022 07/01/2020 Interns Residents Fellows LOCATIONS : Page: 1 of 1 Vineland Mullica Hill Elmer Bridgeton Woodbury COMMITTEE APPROVALS: N/A I.PURPOSE:This policy is intended to provideaprocess for programs to follow for general medical rules and regulationsintended for residents/fellows. II.FORMS/ATTACHMENTS:None III.EQ UIPMENT/SUPPLIES:N/A IV.POLICY:Telephone Orders: Protocol for telephone orders is in accordance with Inspira Health Network policy. PGY-1 trainees are not permitted to give telephone orders.Time/Date: Accurately reflect the date and time of service on chart documentation or will be consideredinvalid.Informed Consent: The Resident will abide by the intent of the Informed Consent Policy and Procedureof Inspira Health Network.“No Code" or "DNR": The Resident will abide by the intent of the Policy and Procedure of the "NoCode Policy" of Inspira Health NetworkConsultations: A resident shall not perform an independent consultation. The resident's activities mayinclude obtainingahistory and physical examination and reports of necessary evaluations but shall notinclude rendering medical opinion or recommendations. All activities of the resident in this request shall be supervised by the consultant.First Assist for major and minor surgery: In elective major surgery,aresident may serve asaFirst Assist only when under the direction ofalicensed physician credentialed by Inspira Health N etwork to perform said procedure and in full compliance with state regulations.Invasive Procedures: A resident shall perform invasive procedures only under the supervision of alicensed physician on the Medical Staff of Inspira Health Network who is grant ed such privilege by the Governing Board.V.REFERENCES:Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education, Institutional Requirements : Revision September 26, 2021; effective July 1, 2022 T he Council on Podiatric Medical Education (CPME), CPME 330, Procedures for Approval of Podiatric Residencies: April 2022 GRADUATE MEDICAL EDUCATION POLICY AND PROCEDURE TITLE: Physician Impairment NO: GME.24 ORIGINATING SOURCE: Graduate Medical Education Effective Date: 06/01/2023 EXECUTIVE APPROVALS: Michael J. Geria, DO, MS, FACOOG (Dist) Vice President of Academic Affairs/DIO P ERSONNEL: Supersedes: 03/07/2022 07/01/2020 Interns Residents Fellows LOCATIONS : Page: 1 of 4 Vineland Mullica Hill Elmer Bridgeton Woodbury COMMITTEE APPROVALS: N/A I.PURPOSE:This policy is intended to ensure that resident/fellow well-being is appropriately monitored and addressed. To ensure the existence of counseling programs for all residents/fellows. To ensureadrug-free and alcohol-free environment which is safe for resident/fellows, patients, and all other potentially impacted individuals. To ensure that required documentation procedures for handling physician impairment are followed and that an educational program on the subject is included in all resident/fellow’s training. II. DEFINITIONIn accordance with Article III, Section 3.8 of the Medical Staff Bylaws, an “impaired practitioner” is defined as:“A practitioner whose professional performance has been impaired asaconsequence of alcohol abuse, abuse ofdrugs other than alcohol, mental or emotional illnesses, dementia, oraphysical disability severe enough to haveanegative impact on the professional performance of such practiti oner”. Refer to: Impaired Practitioner Policy # M SO 57 (IHN) III.FO RMS/ATTACHMENTS:None IV.EQUIPMENT/SUPPLIES:N/A V.PO LICY:Physician health is essential to quality patient care. Inspira Health (IHN) strives to create an environment to assist resident/fellow in maintaining wellness and in proactively addressing any health condition that could potentiallyaf fect their health, well-being, and performance. Most health conditions do not affect workplace performance orimpair the practice of medicine. For the purposes of this policy and procedure,ahealth condition is defined asincluding (but not limited to) any physical health, mental health, substance use/abuse, or behavioral condition that has the potential to adversely affect the practice of medicine and/or impair the resident/fellow’s performance in the program. V I.PROCEDURE:A.Monitoring of Resident/Fellow Well-Being1.It is the responsibility of each training program director to monitor resident/fellow stress, including sleep deprivation and other mental or emotional conditions inhibiting performance or learning, and drug oralcohol-related dysfunction. Physician Impairment GME:24 Page 2 of 4 2.Program directors shall ensure that program faculty and trainees are educated to recognize the signs offatigue by implementing institutional fatigue educationplans as available and/or other program-based fatigue education plans. Round trip transportation reimbursement is available to any resident/fellow thatelects to useatransportation service to get home instead of driving their vehicle while fatigued. 3.Situations that demand excessive service or that consistently produce undesirable stress onresident/fellow’s, must be evaluated and modified. B.Institutional/Program Support & Counseling1.Employee Assistance Program providesafull range of confidential and free counseling andreferral services to resident/fellows. The services have been tailored to meet the needs ofthe resident/fellows, and include services relating to dealing with impairment due to drugs oralcohol, or with any emotional difficulty irrespective of the nature or degree of seriousne ss of the problem. Please see Employee Assistance Section in this document.•Utilization of counseling and related services is generally at the discretion of the resident/fellow, how ever, the Program Director or the DIO have the right to require an individual’s participation. 2.Occurrence Reporting: Patient and employee safety reporting for actual events and near misses. A llresident/fellows are educated during general orientation on how to file an incident report in RLD forad verse events, near misses, and/or unsafe conditions. An accessible link to the incident reporting system is available on the intranet for residents. All reporting can be done anonymously. O ccurrence Reporting: Navigating the Icon WallThe Icon Wall contains links to the submission forms used to create new files. An administrator configur esthe arrangement of the icons on this page and the forms they access. The administrator can also decide tobypass the Icon Wall if the user has access to only one form. This page must be used in order to create anew file.Prerequisites: You must have the 'File Entry' function enabled for your role.To navigate the icon wall:1.Click the New File navigation button to access the Icon Wall. (Alternatively, the Icon Wallcan be accessed by clicking New File in patient search results, Viewing Patient Center Search Results). 2.If necessary, use the Search field to findaspecific form. Forms that include the text in the form name, keywords or inasection title will appear in the results.3.If the Icon Wall was accessed through Patient Center, the Patient Details banner appearswith the details that will populate the Person Affected Details section of the form.4. Hover over an icon to viewadescription of the form inatooltip. 5.Check Anonymous Mode box (not shown) to submitafile anonymously.6.Click an icon to open the associated submission form.7.Click the Settings button and choose to hide or display icon titles. Note: See the section Form Attributes for details on completing the form.Physician Impairment GME:24 Page 3 of 4 3.T here are circumstances in which Resident/Fellows may be unable to attend work, including but not limited to fatigue, illness, and family emergencies. Each program has procedures in place to ensure coverage of patient care in the event thataResident/F ellow may be unable to perform their patient care responsibilities. These procedures will be implemented without fear of negative consequences for the Resident/Fellow who is unable to provide the clinical work.4.Resident/Fellows can attend medical, mental health, and dental care appointments, including those scheduled during their work hours. Resident/Fellows must follow the program’s procedures for scheduling and notification of these appointments.5.Resident/Fellows are encouraged to alert the Program Director,afaculty mentor, or Chief Resident when they have concern for themselves,aResident/Fellow colleague orafaculty member displaying signs of Burnout, depression, substance abuse, suicidal ideation, or potential for violence. C.Phy sician Impairment & Drug and Alcohol-Free Environment1.Inspira Health Network (IHN) maintainsadrug and alcohol-free workplace for the safety of employees, patients, and visitors. Unlawful solicitation, manufacture, distribution, dispensi ng, di version or use of controlled or dangerous substances or alcohol is prohibited. No employee mayr eport to or remain at work impaired by any substance, lawful or unlawful, or if the employee isunable to perform his or her work duties and may endanger his or her own health or safety, and thehealth or safety of others. Violations of this policy are serious and will result in appropriate disciplinewhich may include immediate termination. Appropriate licensing authorities will be notified whereappropriate or required.2. Resident/Fellow’s should refer to Impaired Practitioner P olicy # MSO 57 (IHN), which outlines the protocol and actions to follow when employees are suspected to be under the influence of drugsa nd/or alcohol. E mployee Assistance Program The Employee Assistance Program (EAP) isabenefit available to all employees, regardl ess of status, that provides confidential counseling services to help manage the stress and strain of balancing personal needs and work responsibilities. This program can assist with issues such as relationship problems, substance abuse, stress, grief, emotional difficulties and much more. Physician Impairment GME:24 Page 4 of 4 These are options offered by Inspira Health Network for all employees (Refer to Employee Assistance Program (EAP) HR.23 *IHN* Policy): Carebridge The Carebridge EAP provides help with personal and family issues through telephonic or face- to-face consultation, assistance, and resources available 24 hoursaday, seven daysaweek. In addition to its EAP, Carebridge makes available to all employees its Work-Life Services Program to assist with managing childcare, elder care, college planning, pa renting, adoption, time management, financial and retirement planning and much more. Carebridge EAP & Work-Life Services Call: 1-800-437-0911 Online: www.myliferesource.com Access Code: AGCA8 S OME SIGNS & SYMPTOMS •Irritability, depression, mood swings•Difficult to contact, will not answer phone or return calls•Missed appointments, unexplained absences•Complaints by patients & staff•Neglect of patients, incomplete charting, or neglect of other medical staff duties•Inappropriate treatment or dangerous orders•Excessive prescription writing: unusually high doses or wastage noted in drug logs•Irresponsibility; poor memory; poor concentration•Intoxication or odor of alcohol on breath while on duty•Blood shot or blurry eyes•Trembling, slurred speech V II.REFERENCES: M SO.57 Impaired Practitioner Policy (IHN): Impaired Practitioner Policy MSO.57 (IHN) v.6 (policytech.com) HR.23 Employee Assistance Program (EAP) *IHN* Policy: Employee Assistance Program (EAP) HR.23 *IHN* v.5 (policytech.com) Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education, Institutional Requirements : Revision September 26, 2021; effective July 1, 2022 The Council on Podiatric Medical Education (CPME), CPME 330, Procedures for Approval of Podiatric Residencies: April 2022 GRADUATE MEDICAL EDUCATION POLICY AND PROCEDURE TITLE: Informal Medical Care NO: GME.25 ORIGINATING SOURCE: Graduate Medical Education Effective Date: 06/01/2023 EXECUTIVE APPROVALS: Michael J. Geria, DO, MS, FACOOG (Dist) Vice President of Academic Affairs/DIO PERSONNEL: Supersedes: 03/07/2022 07/01/2020 Interns Residents Fellows LOCATIONS : Page: 1 of 2 Vineland Mullica Hill Elmer Bridgeton Woodbury COMMITTEE APPROVALS: N/A I.PURPOSE:Inspira Health Network and the Graduate Medical Education established and implementsapolicy regardi ng informal medical care for the residents in all programs accredited by ACGME and CPME. II.FORMS/ATTACHMENTS:None III.EQUIPMENT/SUPPLIES:N/A IV.POLICY:Residents must remember that any personal medical advice or treatment including Osteopathic ManipulativeTherapy (OMT) given to any individual outside of the formal residency training program, regardless of statelicensure, createsadoctor-patient relationship, and makes the provider responsible for any adverse patient outcome that may result from such advice or treatment. The provision of such “Informal Medical Care” not onlycreates legal liability issues but also fails to promote effective, comprehensive health care for the pa tient. I nformal medical care includes but is not limited to:a.Calling in or writingaprescription forafriend, relative or any other person, outside of the formalresidency training program or where appropriate,amoonlighting situation.b.Writingadoctor’s note forafriend, relative or any other person, outside of the formal residency trainingprogram or where appropriate,amoonlighting situation.c.Acting asaperson’s attending physician when no such doctor patient relationship formally exists. T he provision of such care by any resident is strictly prohibited and makes the individual providing such care subject to disciplinary action, up to and including dismissal from the program. It should also be noted that Inspira Health Network provides no professional liability coverage for residents for any medical care provided outside of the formal residency training program. V.RE FERENCES: A ccreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education, Institutional Requirements : Revision September 26, 2021; effective July 1, 2022 T he Council on Podiatric Medical Education (CPME), CPME 330, Procedures for Approval of Podiatric Residencies: April 2022 GRADUATE MEDICAL EDUCATION POLICY AND PROCEDURE TITLE: Professional Liability NO: GME.26 ORIGINATING SOURCE: Graduate Medical Education Effective Date: 06/01/2023 EXECUTIVE APPROVALS: Michael J. Geria, DO, MS, FACOOG (Dist) Vice President of Academic Affairs/DIO P ERSONNEL: Supersedes: 03/07/2022 07/01/2020 Interns Residents Fellows LOCATIONS : Page: 1 of 1 Vineland Mullica Hill Elmer Bridgeton Woodbury COMMITTEE APPROVALS: N/A I.PURPOSE:Residents/Fellows enrolled inaGME sponsored residency training program are provided with professional andgeneral liability insurance for activities falling within the course and scope of their training program. Residents/Fellows rotating within the Inspira Health Network system havearesponsibility to report any adverse occurrence or circumstance to the Risk Management Department of Inspira Health Network as well as their Program Director and the Graduate Medical Education Office. II.F ORMS/ATTACHMENTS:None III.EQ UIPMENT/SUPPLIES:N/A IV.POLICY: P er ACGME requirements (IV.E.) and CPME, the Sponsoring Institution must provide residents/fellows with professional liability coverage, including legal defense and protection against awards from claims reported orfiled during participation in each of its ACGME-accredited programs/CPME programs, or after completion of the program(s) if the alleged acts or omissions ofaresident/fellow are within the scope of the program(s). TheSponsoring Institution will provide professional liability insurance. This insurance only covers residents for the scope of the training program. The defense of all claims, actions, and proceedings on behalf of the resident shall be conducted by counsel for the Hospital. The resident will be expected to fully cooperate in aiding theH ospital to investigate, adjust, settle, or defend each claim, action or proceeding. If resident suspects he/she might be named in any action involvingapatient, the program director must be notified immediately. All summons or notices pertaining to claims received or served upon the resident should be sent promptly to the program director who will forward them to the Risk Management Department of Inspira Health Networ k. V.RE FERENCES:Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education, Institutional Requirements: Revision September 26, 2021; effective July 1, 2022 T he Council on Podiatric Medical Education (CPME), CPME 330, Procedures for Approval of Podiatric Residencies: April 2022 GRADUATE MEDICAL EDUCATION POLICY AND PROCEDURE TITLE: Licensure NO: GME.27 ORIGINATING SOURCE: Graduate Medical Education Effective Date: 03/07/2022 EXECUTIVE APPROVALS: Michael J. Geria, DO, MS, FACOOG (Dist) Vice President of Academic Affairs/DIO PERSONNEL: Supersedes: 07/01/2020 Interns Residents Fellows LOCATIONS : Page: 1 of 2 Vineland Mullica Hill Elmer Bridgeton Woodbury COMMITTEE APPROVALS: N/A I.PURPOSE:To provideapolicy and procedure for assistance with requirements for licensure forms requiring signatures of theProgram Directors and approval by the GME office, payment of medical licensure application fees and theprocess whenaresident does not possessavalid license. II.FORMS/ATTACHMENTS:None III.EQ UIPMENT/SUPPLIES:N/A IV.POLICY:Residents should follow the guidelines for registrations, permits and licenses. V.P ROCEDURE: R egistrations for PGY-I:New Jersey State law requires that residency programs register first- year residents. Withoutaregistration, youc annot be employed. The following information is needed for registration:Residents Social Security numberDate of birthMedical school attended and year of graduationIt is the individual resident’s responsibility to provide any additional documents inatimely manner. It is the responsibility of Program Coordinators to submit the paperwork for Registrations. P ermits for PGY-2: New Jersey State law requires residents to haveaPermit before the second year ofaGME program. Refer to N.J.A.C. 13:35-1.5. http://www.state.nj.us/lps/ca/bme/faq The program is required to submit the application no later than four months (March 1) before the date on which the resident is scheduled to begin participating in the second year. The residency program requires PGY-1 residents to completeapermit application and submit to the program coordinators all documents needed for their permit application. Failure to do so is cause for corrective action. Residents will not be reimbursed for any expenses related to the Permit process, i.e., fingerprinting, retrieval of transcripts (not deducted from education stipend). Licensure GME:27 Page 2 of 2 The program director must as certain, through official documentation that the resident has: •Completion of Medical Education Verification Form or the original, official transcripts showing courses taken, dates of attendance and degree conferred for each medical school and college attended.•Under special circumstances, the Board reserves the right to request additional medical school documents.•Copy of the resident’s ECFMG certificate if he or she is an International medical school graduate.•Completed at least three credits in biology, physics, and chemistry during pre-medical school.•Documentation of any name changes It isthe responsibility of the resident to complete the application foraTraining Permit. Program Managers can assist with the process and complete necessary documents. U nrestricted License: All eligible residents CAN apply for an unrestricted New Jersey license. The New Jersey State Board of Medical Examiners requires “An applicant who has graduated from medical school after July 1, 2003, to demonstrate to the Board that after receivingamedical degree, the applicant has completed and received academic credit for at least two years of post-graduate training in an accredited program and hasasigned contract forathird year of post-graduate training in an accredited program.” A resident whose NJ Training Permit has been in effect for ov er 5 years, must apply for or haveaNew Jersey license, at their own expense. A NJ Training Permit is valid for only 5 years. If your training extends beyond 5 years, you must apply foraNJ license in time to have that license by the time your permit expires. You cannot continue your training withoutavalid NJ training pe rmit oravalid NJ license. Please contact the GME office with any questions. Theresident is responsible for completion of application and payment of fees, the Graduate Medical Education Department will not reimburse for fees, and education stipends cannot be used for payment of license fees. A pplications can be obtained from: 40Thttp://www.state.nj.us/lps/ca/bme/faq/training.htm 40Tor: N ew Jersey State Board of Medical Examiners PO Box 183 Trenton, New Jersey 08625-0183 (609) 826-7100 Additionally,aControlled Dangerous Substance license and DEA registration are required for writing prescriptions for all controlled substances and narcotics. Applications foraControlled Dangerous Substance license are included in the New Jersey License application. Be advised that the licensure process in the state of New Jersey may take months. All documents needed for licensure should be secured as early as possible. Allresidents must obtainafederal National Provider Identifier (NPI) number. V I.REFERENCES: A ccreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education, Institutional Requirements : Revision September 26, 2021; effective July 1, 2022 T he Council on Podiatric Medical Education (CPME), CPME 330, Procedures for Approval of Podiatric Residencies: April 2022GRADUATE MEDICAL EDUCATION POLICY AND PROCEDURE TITLE: Stipends, Meals, and Paycheck NO: GME.28 ORIGINATING SOURCE: Graduate Medical Education Effective Date: 05/11/2023 EXECUTIVE APPROVALS: Michael J. Geria, DO, MS, FACOOG (Dist) Vice President of Academic Affairs/DIO PERSONNEL: Supersedes : 07/01/2020 Residents Interns Fellows LOCATIONS: Page: 1 of 5 Vineland Mullica Hill Elmer Bridgeton Woodbury COMMITTEE APPROVALS: N/A I.PURPOSE: To define how the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME) accredited and The Council on Podiatric Medical Education (CPME) training programs at Inspira Health Network determine the appropriate stipend level for all Residents/Fellows. II.FORMS/ATTACHMENTS: Attachment A: 2023 Pay Period Schedule Attachment B: QuickCharge Payroll Deduction III. EQUIPMENT/SUPPLIES: N/A IV. POLICY: MEAL S TIPENDS Meals are not provided at institutional expense except for house staff that are officially on-call in house. To simplify record keeping, all residents are givenamonthly stipend for meals, which roll over from month to month. P lease see the GME office for the specific amount. You can check your spending on: QUICKCHARGE. STIPENDS AND PAYCHECKS Residents are paid biweekly (26 times per year) on Fridays. Payroll deductions for insurance premiums, tax-deferred annuities, and other employee benefits will be deducted in equal installments from each of the 26 pay periods. This shall be the Resident’s/Fellow’s sole source of compensation. The Resident shall not accept from any other source of fees of any kind for services to patients. Dir ect deposit is encouraged, andadirect deposit authorization form needs to be completed prior to utilizing this option. Residents should review paycheck discrepancies with the Program Managers. The managers may refer paycheck questions or issues to the Human Resources Department or Payroll Department. Stipends, Meal s, and Paycheck GME:2 8 Page 2 of 5 The program managers must be notified of any change in address, dependent status, marital status, name, telephone number, and direct deposit bank name and account number as soon as possible. Direct deposit information such as bank name and account number are managed dir ectly by the resident/fellow in Oracle. The employee should access employee self-service to change any personal information. Name changes require that residents show their social security card with the new name for verification. The Sponsoring Institution will not cash paychecks for any reason. Whenresidents register for any educational activity, and do not attend, the registration fee willbe deducted from their Education stipend. V. PRO CEDURE: TheQuickcharge program enables employees to use their IDbadges to make cash free purchases at any Inspira facilities, such as Cafeterias & Gift Shops. All Quickcharge participants receivea10% discountwhen using their badge for cafeteria purchases!Follow the instructions below:Login to Quickcharge: users will go to the link on InspiraNet under Applications, then select Quickcharge The username is your Inspira E-mail WITHOUT @ihn.org The password is your employee ID # (which can be found in Employee Self Service or Kronos) Car efully Read and Accept the Inspira Payroll Deduction Authorization Statement and you will be able to use your ID badge for Quickcharge instantly! Questions or concerns regarding Quickcharge Payroll Deduction may be direct ed to the Payroll Department by email: InspiraPayroll@ihn.org Stipends, Meal s, and Paycheck GME:2 8 Page 3 of 5 Attachment A : Stipends, Meal s, and Paycheck GME:2 8 Page 4 of 5 VI.REFERENCES: Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education, Institutional Requirements: Revision September 26, 2021; effective July 1, 2022 The Council on Podiatric Medical Education (CPME), CPME 330, Procedures for Approval of Podiatric Residencies: April 2022QuickCharge Payroll Deduction Authorization By participating in the QuickCharge Payroll Deduction program, I authorize Inspire Health Network to deduct from my bi-weekly net earnings all required minimum balances due and owed asaresult of swiping my ID Badge for purchases. I understand that each badge swipe will be treated asaseparate purchase/transaction. In the event my employment with Inspira Health Network should end, I agree to have all monies owed for my QuickCharge purchases deducted from any earnings due to me. I wish to parti cipate in the QuickCharge Payroll Deduction program. I wish to discontinue my participation in the QuickCharge Payroll Deduction program. I understand that my badge will not be valid for purchases. _________________________________ _____________________________ Print Name Last 4 digits of S.S. # _________________________________ _____________________________ Signature Date Forward completed form to one of the following: Fax: 856-575-4235 E-Mail or Scan to: Payroll Questions regarding QuickCharge Payroll Deduction should be directed to the Payroll Department at (856)-575-4230. It will take approximately 5 business days before your QuickCharge will be active. Revised 05/08/15 (WB) Attachment B:GRADUATE MEDICAL EDUCATION POLICY AND PROCEDURE TITLE: Health Insurance NO: GME.29 ORIGINATING SOURCE: Graduate Medical Education Effective Date: 05/26/2023 EXECUTIVE APPROVALS: Michael J. Geria, DO, MS, FACOOG (Dist) Vice President of Academic Affairs/DIO PERSONNEL: Supersedes: 03/07/2022 07/01/2020 Interns Residents Fellows LOCATIONS : Page: 1 of 1 Vineland Mullica Hill Elmer Bridgeton Woodbury COMMITTEE APPROVALS: N/A I.PURPOSE: To identify individual benefits available to Housestaff in graduate medical education programs sponsored by Inspira Health Network. II.FORMS/ATTACHMENTS:None III.EQ UIPMENT/SUPPLIES:N/A IV.POLICY: I nspira Health Network provides benefits to residents consistent with the benefits offered to hospital employees. The employee must complete an enrollment form at orientation. It is the resident's responsibility to enroll for health insurance for individual and family coverage. V.P ROCEDURE: B enefits must be renewed on an annual basis. Notices each year for open enrollment/renewal of benefits are sentout each year via IHN email. R epresentatives from the Inspira Health Network Human Resources Department are available at GEO to answer any questions and to assist in completing the enrollment form, and through44T the HR Service Center, 44T45T 856-641-MYHR (6947), or Email: HRServiceCenter@ihn.org VI.REFERENCES: Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education, Institutional Requirements: Revision Septemb er 26, 2021; effective July 1, 2022 The Council on Podiatric Medical Education (CPME), CPME 330, Procedures for Approval of Podiatric Residencies: April 2022 GRADUATE MEDICAL EDUCATION POLICY AND PROCEDURE TITLE: Lactation Support NO: GME.30 ORIGINATING SOURCE: Graduate Medical Education Effective Date: 06/01/2023 EXECUTIVE APPROVALS: Michael J. Geria, DO, MS, FACOOG (Dist) Vice President of Academic Affairs/DIO PERSONNEL: Supersedes: 03/07/2022 07/01/2020 Interns Residents Fellows Medical Students LOCATIONS : Page: 1 of 2 Vineland Mullica Hill Elmer Bridgeton Woodbury COMMITTEE APPROVALS: N/A I.PURPOSE: Inspira Health Network, Graduate Medical Education is committed to establish and maintainahealthful and safe environment for our residents, fellows, and students, in part by creatingaculture which is supportive of wellness efforts across all life events. This policy provides support for residents, fellows, and students who choose to continue breastfeeding after returning to work. By implementing this policy, GME strives to create an exceptional environment conduciveto working and learning and attuned to both professional and pers onal needs. II.FORMS/ATTACHMENTS:None III.EQUIPMENT/SUPPLIES:N/A IV.POLICY:This policy is consistent with federal and New Jersey state health initiatives and statutes. Inspira providesanenvironment that supports and protects employees that choose to breastfeed, such as: 1. Ensuring availability of lactation rooms2. Provision of breast pumps, for use in lactation rooms V.P ROCEDURE:Contact information for all Inspira Lactation Consultants:•Vineland and Elmer Lactation Consultants:oLauren Bortner BSN, RNC, IBCoExtension# 18189•Mullica Hill Lactation Consultant : oD eborah A Frye, BSN, RN, IBCLC, RLCoExtension# 81288Inspira offers free Zoom breastfeeding classes monthly : •Register at: educationregistration@ihn.org Lactation Support GME:30 Page 2 of 2 Lactation room: Mullica Hill Located on 2w outside the LDRP and labeled “Employee Lactation” Vineland Located in the NICU Elmer Located on the maternity unit •Y ou may also bring your own pum p. •T here is notarefrigerator to store milk, but we encourage you to bringasmall insulated coolerbag with gel packs to keep your milk cool while at work. When milk is stored inacooler bagw ith 2 gel packs, it will stay sufficiently cool to prevent bacterial growth for up to 24-hours. V I.REFERENCES: A ccreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education, Institutional Requirements: Revision September 26, 2021; effective July 1, 2022 T he Council on Podiatric Medical Education (CPME), CPME 330, Procedures for Approval of Podiatric Residencies: April 2022GRADUATE MEDICAL EDUCATION POLICY AND PROCEDURE TITLE: Badges NO: GME.32 ORIGINATING SOURCE: Graduate Medical Education Effective Date: 06/01/2023 EXECUTIVE APPROVALS: Michael J. Geria, DO, MS, FACOOG (Dist) Vice President of Academic Affairs/DIO PERSONNEL: Supersedes: 03/07/2022 07/01/2020 Interns Residents Fellows LOCATIONS : Page: 1 of 1 Vineland Mullica Hill Elmer Bridgeton Woodbury COMMITTEE APPROVALS: N/A I.PURPOSE: The purpose of the badge policy is to standardize badging practices across the Inspira Health Network. Photo identification (ID) badges provideasafe and more secure environment for all employees by means of identifyingthe role of the ID Badge holder. II.F ORMS/ATTACHMENTS:Please see Section V. Procedures. III.EQ UIPMENT/SUPPLIES:N/A IV.POLICY:Residents must wear identification badges inamanner that is fully visible in all hospital facilities. Badges are issued by the Inspira Human Resources Department. F ailure to wear the badge may result in disciplinary action. No one shall be admitted to the hospital duringacr isis withoutaproper identification badge. If your badge is lost, stolen, or misplaced you must notify the Security Department immediately. Damaged or defective badges will be replaced free. Return I.D. Badge to the Human Resources Department, or Program Manager at the time of termination of employment or prior to graduation. Residents must also carry the New Jersey Healthcare emergency code card. V.P ROCEDURE: E mployee Badge Information: Employee Badge Information (corporate.lan) oTo request an ID Badge Authorization form, please click on the icon (Scan to HR via the HR S can button on any IHN Network Copier): ID Badge Authorization Form-revised.doc (corporate.lan) oFor Lost or Damaged Badge please fill out form here: Lost Badge Form (corporate.lan) VI.REFERENCES: Identification Badges SEC. *IHN*, Identification Badges SEC.1 *IHN* v.7 (policytech.com) POLICY & PROCEDURE SUBJECT: Identification Badges SEC.1 *IHN * DEPT: SECURITY Page 1 of 4 EFFECTIVE Date: 06/01/2010 REVIEW Date: 11/15/2022 I. POLICY While working at an Inspira Health facility, all employees, volunteers, medical staff, contractors, contracted staff, clergy and medical students are required to visibly wear an Inspira identification badge. II. RESPONSIBILITY All personnel III. PROCEDURE A.General Guidelines 1.While working at an Inspira Health facility, all employees, medical staff, residents, contractors, contracted staffs, students and volunteers are required to wear their identification badge visibly above the waist. 2.Everyone working at an Inspira Facility must present their badge for inspection when requested. 3.Badges cannot be altered or deface in any way. 4.Employees, medical staff and contracted staff who forget their badge must report to Security foratemporary ID B adge. A Temporary Badge Log Out form must be completed, and the temporary badge must be returned to Security at the completion of their shift. 5.Contractors, volunteers, medical students and clergy who forget their identification badge must report tothe leadership of the ir responsible department. 6.Photo identification badges for employees, volunteers, residents and contracted staff will be updated as needed. 7.Failure to follow the guidelines of this policy may result inadisciplinary action or other sanction. B.Employee Identification Badges 1. Identification of new employees shall be made viaagovernment -issued photo identification issued byastate or federal agency (i.e., driver’s license or passport) prior to issuance of an Inspira Health photo identification badge. 2. Identification badges will be white in color and shall show the full first and last name, licensure credentials, title and department. a)Identification badges foremployees assigned to Maternal Child Health will be pink in color. 3. When an employeeterm of employment is terminated for any reason, the employee’s Director or designee should make every effort to recover the identification badge. If not recovered by theDirector or designee, the HR Representative handling the exit interview should make every effort to recover the badge. The recovered badge should be turned over to HR Staffing and the badge must always be invalidated. 4. Access to restricted areas must be approved by the employee’s Director or designee and the Director of Security or designee.POLICY & PROCEDURE SUBJECT: Identification Badges SEC.1 *IHN * DEPT: SECURITY Page 2 of 4 EFFECTIVE Date: 06/01/2010 REVIEW Date: 11/15/2022 5. Employee I D Badges shall not be older than 5 years. C.Contractor Identification Badges 1.For the purpose of this policy, contractors are non -credentialed individualswho provideaservice onacontract basis and who are not employed by the Inspira Health. 2.Contractor identification badges will be provided upon receipt of an ID Badge Authorization Form approved by the Director of the department who is responsible for issuing, tracking and recovering their inventory of contractor identification badges. 3.Contractor badges will be white in color with Contractor and responsible department name printed onthe face. 4.Contractors coming to hospital buildings will report to the responsible department or designee to be issuedacontractor badge. 5.The responsible department will determine the location of contractors at the end of each day and effect proper notification, if contractors will be remaining in the hospital after hours. 6.Recovery of contractor identification badges will be the responsibi lity of the issuing department. 7.Access to restricted areas must be approved by the responsible Director or designee and the Director of Security or designee. D.Contracted Staff Identification Badge 1.For the purpose of this policy, contracted staffs are credentialed individuals who provideaservice onacontract basis and who are not employed by Inspira Health. (See Contracted Staff Service Requirements Policy HR.16) 2.Contract Staff photo identificationbadges will be provided upon receipt of an ID Badge Authorization Form approved by the Director responsible for the contracted individuals or will be approved via the GEO list. All contracted/agency staff must be approved through theonline HR process. 3.Contracted Staff photo identification badges will haveared “A” (Agency) on the face to distinguish it from an employee identification badge. 4.Access to restricted areas will be assigned on an as need basis approved by the Director or designee responsible for the Contracted Staff and the Directorof Security or designee. 5.The Director responsible for the Contracted Staff must notify HR Staffing to invalidate the identification badges of Contracted Staff members who are no longer providing service to the Hospital and must recover the identification badge(s), returning them to HR Staffing. E.Volunteer Identification Badge 1.Volunteer photo identification badges will be provided upon receipt of an ID Badge Authorization Form approved by the Director responsible for VolunteerPOLICY & PROCEDURE SUBJECT: Identification Badges SEC.1 *IHN * DEPT: SECURITY Page 3 of 4 EFFECTIVE Date: 06/01/2010 REVIEW Date: 11/15/2022 Services. 2.Access to restricted areas will be assigned on an as need basis approved by the Director responsible for Volunteer Services andDirector of Security or designee. 3.The Director responsible for Volunteer Services must make every effort to recover the badges of Volunteers who have ended their service and must notify HR Staffing to invalidate the badg e. F.Student Identification Badge 1.For the purposes of this policyastudent isanon -employee, who is on site for an educational rotation foralimited period of time. 2.Inspira Student non -photo identification badges will be provided upon receipt of an ID Badge Authorization Form approved by the Director of the department who is responsible for issuing, tracking and recovering their inventory of student identification badges. 3.Inspira Student non -photo identification badges will be gray in color with Student and the name of the responsible department printed on the face. 4.In addition to the Inspira Student non -photo identification badge, students will be required to visibly wear the identification badge issued to them by the educational institution sponsoring their rotation. 5.Access to restric ted areas must be approved by the Director responsible for the Student identification badges and the Director of Security or designee. 6.Students who are not required towear an Inspira identification badge by the Director responsible for their oversight, must wear the identification badge issued by the educational institution sponsoring their rotation. G.Resident Identification Badge 1.For the purposes of this policyaResident is an employed physician, performingarotation of grad uate medical training, foralimited period of time. 2.Inspira Resident Identification Badges will be provided upon receipt of an ID Badge Authorization Form approved by the Program Director. 3.Inspira Resident Identification Badges will be yellowin color and shall show the full first and last names, licensure credentials, department and title (Resident). 4.Access to restricted areas must be approved by the Program Director or designee and the Director of Security or designee. 5.The Program Director will be responsible for recovering the identification badge and notifying HR Staffing whenaResident is removed from or completes the program. H.Clergy Identification Badge 1.Clergy identification badges will be provided upon receipt of an ID Badge Authorization form approved by the Pastoral Care Supervisor. 2.The Clergy photo ID badge will be colored coded with red lettering will haveacolor -coded expiration date, the full name and religious denomination. 3.Clergy identification badges will havea2 -year expiration date assigned and therePOLICY & PROCEDURE SUBJECT: Identification Badges SEC.1 *IHN * DEPT: SECURITY Page 4 of 4 EFFECTIVE Date: 06/01/2010 REVIEW Date: 11/15/2022 will bea$5.00 renewal or replacement fee. 4.Clergy identification badges will not have access ability. 5.The recovery of Clergy Identification Badges will be the responsibility of thePastoral Care Supervisor. I.Emergency Medical Squad Badge 1.Identification badges for EMS squads will be provided when requested by the Emergency Squad Chief. 2.The EMS badge will be white in color and will show the name of the EMS squad and the assigned vehicle number. 3.The EMS badges will be assigned access to the Emergency Department and ambulance entrance, any additional access must be approved by the Emergency Squad Chief and the Director of Security or designee. J.Law Enforcement Badge 1 Emergency access badges (10) are available for use by Law Enforcement agencies requiring emergency access to the facility and maintained by each Security Department inalocked container. K.Lost, Misplaced, Defaced or Stolen Inspira Identification Badge 1.Notify your department leadership and the Security Director or HR staffing immediately to invalidate the badge. Employees shall payafee for the replacement of lost, misplaced, defaced or stolen iden tification badges. Replacement badges can be requested by completing the badge request form on the Inspira Intranet. 2.If an Emergency Medical Squad Badge is lost, the notification process as described in #1 above must be followed, andafee will be charg ed to replace it. L.Replacement ofadamaged Inspira Identification Badge 1.If an identification badge is damaged it will be replaced, however the damaged identification badge must be turned in prior to the new badge being issued. Reference : New Jersey Board of Nursing, Identification Tags, 13:37 -6.4 GRADUATE MEDICAL EDUCATION POLICY AND PROCEDURE TITLE: Housing NO: GME.33 ORIGINATING SOURCE: Graduate Medical Education Effective Date: 06/01/2023 EXECUTIVE APPROVALS: Michael J. Geria, DO, MS, FACOOG (Dist) Vice President of Academic Affairs/DIO PERSONNEL: Supersedes: 03/07/2022 07/01/2020 Interns Residents Fellows LOCATIONS : Page: 1 of 1 Vineland Mullica Hill Elmer Bridgeton Woodbury COMMITTEE APPROVALS: N/A I.FORMS/ATTACHMENTS:None II.EQUIPMENT/SUPPLIES: N/A III.POLICY:Housing is not provided. IV. REFERENCES: Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education, Institutional Requirements: Revision September 26, 2021; effective July 1, 2022 The Council on Podiatric Medical Education (CPME), CPME 330, Procedures for Approval of Podiatric Residencies: April 2022 GRADUATE MEDICAL EDUCATION POLICY AND PROCEDURE TITLE: Laundry and Dress Code NO: GME.35 ORIGINATING SOURCE: Graduate Medical Education Effective Date: EXECUTIVE APPROVALS: Michael J. Geria, DO, MS, FACOOG (Dist) Vice President of Academic Affairs/DIO PERSONNEL: Supersedes: 03/07/2022 07/01/2020 Interns Residents Fellows LOCATIONS : Page: 1 of 1 Vineland Mullica Hill Elmer Bridgeton Woodbury COMMITTEE APPROVALS: N/A I.PURPOSE:All residents are expected to maintain high professional standards of dress and behavior. II.FORMS/ATTACHMENTS:None III.EQUIPMENT/SUPPLIES:N/A IV.POLICY: In spira Health Network: Graduate Medical Education does not provide laundry services. Laundry is theresponsibility of the trainee other than for the hospital issues scrub attire. D ress Code : •A ppropriate male attire includes button down shirt, trousers (not blue jeans), andawhite lab coat, or program defined equivalent with name tag and identification badge. •A ppropriate female attire includes dresses, skirts or slacks with tops, andawhite lab coat withname tag and identification badge. •Nosandals or open toed shoes are allowe d. •P ersonal scrub suits are permitted to be worn on specific rotations. •H ospital issued scrub suits are the property of the medical center and are to be worn only whenr equired in the medical center. Hospital issued scrub suits are not to be worn outside the medicalcenter unless specifically instructed to do so by the hospital. V. REFERENCES: A ccreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education, Institutional Requirements : Revision September 26, 2021; effective July 1, 2022 T he Council on Podiatric Medical Education (CPME), CPME 330, Procedures for Approval of Podiatric Residencies: April 2022 GRADUATE MEDICAL EDUCATION POLICY AND PROCEDURE TITLE: Monetary Gifts NO: GME.36 ORIGINATING SOURCE: Graduate Medical Education Effective Date: 06/01/2023 EXECUTIVE APPROVALS: Michael J. Geria, DO, MS, FACOOG (Dist) Vice President of Academic Affairs/DIO PERSONNEL: Supersedes: 03/07/2022 07/01/2020 Interns Residents Fellows LOCATIONS : Page: 1 of 1 Vineland Mullica Hill Elmer Bridgeton Woodbury COMMITTEE APPROVALS: N/A I.PURPOSE: This policy establishes guidance for the acceptance of gifts. This policy provides guidance regarding conflicts of interest and is intended to supplement, but not replace, state and federallaws governing conflicts of interest for nonprofit and charitable organizations. II.FORMS/ATTACHMENTS:None III.EQUIPMENT/SUPPLIES:N/A IV.POLICY: Residents are not to receive money or substantial gifts or other compensation from patients, family, or friends of the patients for any service performed at Inspira Health Network, or as part of their res idency program. V.REFERENCES: Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education, Institutional Requirements: Revision September 26, 2021; effective July 1, 2022 The Council on Podiatric Medical Education (CPME), CPME 330, Procedures for Approval of Podiatric Residencies: April 2022 GRADUATE MEDICAL EDUCATION POLICY AND PROCEDURE TITLE: Parking NO: GME.37 ORIGINATING SOURCE: Graduate Medical Education Effective Date: 06/01/2023 EXECUTIVE APPROVALS: Michael J. Geria, DO, MS, FACOOG (Dist) Vice President of Academic Affairs/DIO PERSONNEL: Supersedes: 03/07/2022 07/01/2020 Interns Residents Fellows LOCATIONS : Page: 1 of 5 Vineland Mullica Hill Elmer Bridgeton Woodbury COMMITTEE APPROVALS: N/A I.PURPOSE: Inspira Health Network offers free parking to all residents/fellows at no cost. Please see the policybelow for more information on parking and to view the maps by location. II.FORMS/ATTACHMENTS:None III.EQ UIPMENT/SUPPLIES: N/A IV.POLICY:Parking is available to all residents in all Inspira Health Network campuses lots. PARKING •Vineland CampusAll Interns, Residents, Fellows are required to park in the employee parking lot. This is the lot adjacent to the helipad. Please refer to the map shown for details. The front lots(#279 and #36) are reserved for patients and visitors. •Elmer CampusResidents are required to park in the employee parking lot. •Mullica Hill CampusResidents are required to park in the employee parking lot in the rear of the hospital. Pl ease see the map of each campus on next page: Parking GME:37 Page 2 of 5 Mullica Hill Campus Parking GME:37 Page 3 of 5 Parking GME:37 Page 4 of 5 Parking GME:37 Page 5 of 5 Elmer Campus V. REFERENCES: Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education, Institutional Requirements: Revision September 26, 2021; effective July 1, 2022 The Council on Podiatric Medical Education (CPME), CPME 330, Procedures for Approval of Podiatric Residencies: April 2022GRADUATE MEDICAL EDUCATION POLICY AND PROCEDURE TITLE: Resident Lounge/On-Call Suite NO: GME.38 ORIGINATING SOURCE: Graduate Medical Education Effective Date: 06/01/2023 EXECUTIVE APPROVALS: Michael J. Geria, DO, MS, FACOOG (Dist) Vice President of Academic Affairs/DIO PERSONNEL: Supersedes: 03/07/2022 07/01/2020 Interns Residents Fellows LOCATIONS : Page: 1 of 1 Vineland Mullica Hill Elmer Bridgeton Woodbury COMMITTEE APPROVALS: N/A I.PURPOSE: To assure that residents/fellows have sleep quarters that safe, comfortable, and private (one person per room). II.FORMS/ATTACHMENTS:None III.EQUIPMENT/SUPPLIES: N/A IV.POLICY: The resident lounge and on call suites are designated asaprivate quiet area for all resident s. Entry access is limited to residents, faculty, GME staff and housekeeping/maintenance. Lavatory and shower facilities are in close proximity to the sleep rooms. All house staff, faculty and medical students needing overnight sleep rooms are eligible to use the on- call rooms. The GME House Staff Office is responsible for the management of room allocations, in consultation with Hospital Administration. Utilization of beds will be reviewed at least annually, and re -assignments made, as necessary. Access is limited for your safety and privacy. Please be mindful of others who are there to study or rest. Please report any suspicious persons or activity to the GME staff or Security. Note: Please help to keep the area clean. V. REFERENCES: Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education, Institutional Requirements: Revision September 26, 2021; effective July 1, 2022 The Council on Podiatric Medical Education (CPME), CPME 330, Procedures for Approval of Podiatric Residencies: April 2022 GRADUATE MEDICAL EDUCATION POLICY AND PROCEDURE TITLE: Records Retention NO: GME.40 ORIGINATING SOURCE: Graduate Medical Education Effective Date: 06/01/2023 EXECUTIVE APPROVALS: Michael J. Geria, DO, MS, FACOOG (Dist) Vice President of Academic Affairs/DIO PERSONNEL: Supersedes: 03/07/2022 07/01/2020 Interns Residents Fellows LOCATIONS : Page: 1 of 2 Vineland Mullica Hill Elmer Bridgeton Woodbury COMMITTEE APPROVALS: N/A I.PURPOSE: To delineate the way in which Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME), and relevant Residency Review Committee (RRC) regulations or Council on Podiatric Medicine (CPME) accredited Graduate Medical Education (GME) programs will maintain resident/fellows records. The GMEC assures compliance via its oversight function. II.FORMS/ATTACHMENTS:None III. EQUIPMENT/SUPPLIES:N/A IV.POLICY:This Policy applies to all ACGME accredited post-graduate training programs sponsored by Inspira HealthNetwork (IHN) and CPME programs. V.P ROCEDURE:A.Residency Files: Each residency or fellowship must permanently maintain manually, electronically, orinthe residency management system (New Innovations ) resident personnel files that include, ataminimum, if applicable : A pplication ERAS fileECFMG documentationVisa documentation (if applicable)Copy of the medical school diplomaCopy of annual resident contractsIn-training exam scores (ITE)USMLE/COMLEX transcriptDocumentation of required added training, such as ACLS, PALS, etc.Documentation of scholarly activity and quality improvement projects, including records ofpresentations, abstracts, and publicationsAnnual verification of current Training and any Permanent LicenseSemi-annual milestone evaluationsSemi-annual written evaluations by the Program DirectorFinal written evaluation by the Program Director Records Retention GME:40 Page 2 of 2 Final milestone evaluationsFinal procedure or case logsRecords of the resident’s/fellow’s rotations, training experiencesDocumentation of any adverse action, such as probation, dismissal, or nonrenewal of contractVerification request information releaseFor residents/fellows engaged in moonlighting,aprospective, written statement of permissi on from the program directorCopy of the graduation diplomaB.Document verification of program completion for all program graduates within 30 days of graduati on. C.P rovide verification of program completion on resident’s request within 30 days.D. ACGME and CPME require that the program and institution only retainapermanent recordof individuals who have been accepted into the program. Individual program requirements may vary on policiesregarding the retention of information on applications not chosen by the program.E.Residents/fellows who do not complete the program or who are notrecommended for Board certification, programs should keep the entire file foraminimum of seven years in case of subsequent legal action. V I.REFERENCES: A ccreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education, Institutional Requirements : Revision September 26, 2021; effective July 1, 2022 T he Council on Podiatric Medical Education (CPME), CPME 330, Procedures for Approval of Podiatric Residencies: April 2022GRADUATE MEDICAL EDUCATION POLICY AND PROCEDURE TITLE: Performance Improvement NO: GME.41 ORIGINATING SOURCE: Graduate Medical Education Effective Date: 06/01/2023 EXECUTIVE APPROVALS: Michael J. Geria, DO, MS, FACOOG (Dist) Vice President of Academic Affairs/DIO PERSONNEL: Supersedes: 03/07/2022 07/01/2020 Interns Residents Fellows LOCATIONS : Page: 1 of 3 Vineland Mullica Hill Elmer Bridgeton Woodbury COMMITTEE APPROVALS: N/A I.PURPOSE:The purpose of this policy is to state Inspira Health Network's position on administering equitable and consistent corrective action for unsatisfactory conduct and/or academic performance during residency training. The best corrective measure is the one that does not have to be enforced and comes from good leadership and fair supervision at all residency training levels. Inspira Health Network’s own best interest lies in ensuring fair treatment of all residents and in making certain that corrective actions are prompt, uniform, and impartial. T he major purpose of any corrective action is to correct the problem, prevent recurrence, and prepare the resident for satisfactory performance in the future. Corrective action may call for any of the actions listed in this section, depending on the severity of the problem and the number of occurrences. There may be circumstances when one or more steps are bypassed. Progressive corrective action means that, with respect to most disciplinary problems, these steps will normally be followed. Inspira Health Network recognizes that there are certain types of resident problems that are serious enough to justify eitherasuspension, or, in extreme situations, termination from the training program, without going through the usual progressive corrective action steps. By using progressive corrective action, we hope that most resident problems can be corrected at an early stage, benefiting both the resident and Inspira Health Network. A Resident’s appointment is expressly conditioned upon satisfactory performance of all Program elements by the Resident. If the actions, conduct, or performance, professional or otherwise, either within or outside of the medical center, of the Resident are deemed by Inspira Health Network to be inconsistent with the terms of theResident Agreement, Inspira Health Network’s standards of patient care, patient safety or welfare, or the objectives of Inspira Health Network, or if such actions, conduct, or performance reflects adversely on the Program or Inspira Health Network or disrupts operations at the Program or Inspira Health Network level, corrective action may be taken by Inspira Health Network. Corrective action against the Resident may be initiated by any Inspira Health Network administrator, officer of the medical staff, by the Program director or his/her designee of any Residency program, by the Chief Executive Officer of the corporation, Administrator of the Division, or corporate officer. E ach residency program is responsible for assessing and monitoring each resident’s academic and professional progress including specific knowledge, skills, attitudes, and educational experiences required for residents to achieve competence in patient care, medical knowledge, practice-based learning and improvement, interpersonal and communication skills, professionalism, and systems-based practice, as well as adherence to departmental policies concerning resident education and the hospitals graduate medical education policies. Failure to demonstrate adequate fund of knowledge or professional decorum adequately in any of these areas may result in Performance Improvement GME:41 Page 2 of 6 remediation or more stringent disciplinary and corrective action if deemed appropriate. II.FORMS/ATTACHMENTS:None III.EQUIPMENT/SUPPLIES:N/A IV.POLICY: T his policy has been developed in accordance with ACGME guidelines to provide fair informative remedy, with due process, for residents failing to meet expectation in the core competencies. The objective of this policy is to provide constructive feedback and encouragement to overcome deficiencies. Ifadeficiency is persistent and inconsistent with the practice of medicine, this policy also provides guidance for due process leading to adverse actions such as extension of training, probation, or dismissal from the program. Apart from this policy, ifaresident physician commits an egregious act, he or she may be dismissed from direct patient care or from the program. T his policy also reflects Inspira Health Network Graduate Medical Education Program’s corrective action policy such that corrective action is not punitive. Instead, it emphasizes correcting the problem while maintaining the resident’s dignity and respect. Depending on the severity of the offense or deficiency, appropriate steps will be taken to work with the resident throughaprocess that provides for increasingly serious steps if not resolved. A program director or his/her designee may seek confidential counsel of the DIO or the Graduate Medical Education Committee (GMEC) at this point or as he/she considers any graduated serious action or subsequent levels. In addition, program director or his/her designee may initiate an offense or deficiency at his/her discretion at any level as defined below. V.PROCEDURE: If resident is identified as failing to meet the minimum requirements for progression in the program in any core competency, faculty or residents will notify the Program director and disclose the details of the concern. A Program director or his/her designee may take any of the following action and does not have to move through these actions inaconsecutive manner. A representative from Human Resources may be involved at any level of the process but will be required to be involved at Level III or higher. L evel I – Constructive Advice: A. Meeting and Basic Documentation: The Program director or his/her designee will meet with the resident to discuss the deficiency or offense. Documentation of the concern, all discussions regarding same, and plan for remedy will be placed in the resident’s file. If remediation is successful, documentation will be removed from the resident’s file upon graduation. If remediation is not successful, further action will be taken. In any case, the documentation produced at this level is not reportable for future licensure and credentialing purposes. B. Follow Up: if any action, as defined inalevel I deficiency or offense occurs, at least one follow-up meeting is required between the resident and Program director or his/her designee to assess progress.Performance Improvement GME:41 Page 3 of 6 Level II - Performance Improvement Plan: If the resident has previously met with the Program director or his/her designee and he/she is providing basic documentation andasimilar concern is again raised or ifamore serious infraction occurs, the Program director or his/her designee will document the additional details of the deficiency or offense using the GMEC approved performance improvement plan. The plan which may also be termedaremediation plan, oraPersonal Improvement Plan should include the program director’s or his/her designee’s recommendations and conclusions prescribed to the resident, along with any accompanying corrective action plan or possible Personal Improvement Plan. Program director should inform the Vice- President of Academic Affairs of any corrective action remediation plans as soon as possible. The program director or his/her designee will then meet with the resident to discuss the action plan. The resident will be required to sign the formal action plan and is able to writearebuttal to the plan. A copy of the plan and any accompanying rebuttal letter will be forwarded to the DIO for review and additional recommendations, if any. Once the Vice-President of Academic Affairs has reviewed all the documents, they will be placed in the resident’s file. The status of the resident in correcting the deficiency will be reevaluated atatime commensurate with the severity of the deficiency, usually between one and three months. Any decision to implement an improvement plan should be based on timely evaluation of the resident by the Program director or his/her designee and must be supported by appropriate documentation. The resident should have received warning of deficiency (ies) prior to the problem(s) reachingaLevel II improvement plan unless the infraction is ofamore serious nature. The program director or his/her designee may seek confidential counsel of the GMEC as he/she considers any graduated serious action or subsequent levels. If progress through the improvement plan is successful, all documentation will be removed from the resident’s file upon graduation. L evel III – Formal Probation: If, during evaluation, it is found thatadeficiency or offense has not been corrected satisfactorily, the resident would be placed on formal probation, (hereinafter “probation”). Curriculum credit may be withheld pending the outcome of formal probation. Moonlighting privileges, if previously granted, will be suspended. 1.The program director or his/her designee must inform the Vice-President of Academic Affairs of formal probation plans as soon as possible and present his or her recommendation for probation to the GMEC for formal action prior to implementation. 2.The recommendation for probation, along with prescribed corrective action, will be documented inan addendum to the original letter of counseling (if started at level I). Documentation will includeastatement that formal probation is reportable on all future state licensing and credentialing forms in most states and signature blocks for the Program director, the resident and the Vice-President of Academic Affairs. Specifically, the statement should include: a. the nature of the offense or deficiency(ies). b. A summary of due process and remediation opportunities duringaprobationary period (i.e., constructive advice, improvement plan, etc.). c. Statement of failure to succeed to successfully remediate the offense or deficiency(ies) during the probationary period. d. Final recommendations for corrective action must be met with in the probation to avoidPerformance Improvement GME:41 Page 4 of 6 prolongation of training, inability to sit for boards, dismissal from the program or other adverse action. e. A statement that failure to meet recommendations for corrective action and three months will result in permanent dismissal from the program if this is intended f. A statement that probation is reportable on all future state licensing and credentialing forms in most states g. And signature blocks from the Program director, the resident and the Vice- President of Academic Affairs. The resident signature box will be placed belowacheckbox stating (I accept the terms of probation as outlined in this letter). 3.Final recommendations for corrective action must be met within the probationary period to avoid prolongation of training, inability to sit for boards, dismissal from the program or other adver se action. 4.A prescribed date of reevaluation for final disposition commensurate with the severity of the deficiency, usually between one and three months. At this time, the status of the resident’s correction of the deficiency will be reevaluated. Comments may be solicited from involved individuals and compiled along with other evidence of successful improvement while on probation intoareevaluation addendum to the letter of counseling. 5.Once the resident physician has successfully demonstrated adequate correction of documented deficiency(ies) this reevaluation letter will state that probation was successful and will be maintained in the resident’s file.Anydecision to placearesident on probation shall be based on timely evaluation of the resident by the program director or his/her designee and must be supported by appropriate documentation. The resident should receive sufficient warning of the deficiency or the offense prior to the problems reachingaLevel III formal probation. If the resident refuses to sign and or accept the terms of probation, the terms will go into effect from the date that the program director signature is placed on the letter. The resident may choose to appealarecommendation for Level III probation by initiating the formal resident grievance process (see policy on grievance and due process). If the terms and conditions of probation are met, the resident will be retained by the program and, if no further adverse events transpire, will be eligible to graduate from the program. However, probation is reportable for all future licensure credentialing purposes, and could adversely affect future employability. Ifar esident’s deficiency is believed by the program director to potentially compromised patient safety, the resident will be removed from direct patient care responsibilities and placed on administrative leave for the duration of the investigation of the deficiency. Upon completion of the investigation, corrective action may occur, if warranted. L evel IV – Suspension: Ifar esident’s deficiency is believed by the program director or his/her designee to potentially compromised patient safety, or to reduce the substantial likelihood of injury or damage to the health or safety of any patient, employee or other person present in the medical center, the CMO, Vice-President of Academic Affairs, program director, or their respective designated representative has the authority to summarily suspend the Resident. The resident will be removed from direct patient care responsibilities and placed on administrative leave/suspension for the duration of the investigation of the deficiency. Upon completion of the investigation, corrective action may occur, if warranted. As soon as possible, however no longer than within 5 working days afterasummary suspension is imposed, the DIO (or his respective designee) will discuss and Performance Improvement GME:41 Page 5 of 6 recommend continuation, modification, or termination of the suspension. Unless the recommendation is to terminate or modify the suspension to one of lesser levels described above, the resident will remain suspended until an investigation as is completed. Documentation will includeastatement that formal probation is reportable on all future state licensing and credentialing forms in most states and signature blocks for the program director, the resident, and the DIO. Specifically, the statement should include: a.the nature of the offense or deficiency(ies) b.A summary of due process and remediation opportunities duringaprobationary period (i.e., constructive advice, improvement plan, etc.) if applicable. c.Statement of failure to succeed to successfully remediate the offense or deficiency(ies) during the probationary period if applicable. d.A statement that suspension is reportable on all future state licensing and credentialing formsin most states. e.A statement that the resident will surrender his/her hospital identification badge along with any hospital owned property in his/her possession. f.A statement that the resident will not discuss his/her suspension or remediation with any other Inspira resident. g.A statement that the resident will immediately leave Inspira property and not return unless notified to do so by the GME office or to seek medical care for themselves or their dependent children. h.And signature blocks from the program director, the resident and the DIO. The resident signature box will be placed belowacheckbox stating (I accept the terms of probation as outlined in this letter). Level V – Dismissal: Ifaresident physician has been placed on probation and/or suspension and fails to successfully complete all expectations as outlined in his/her plan foraknown offense or documented deficiency, or if the problem recurs after apparentlyasuccessful probationary period, or he/she commits an act ofagrave nature, he or she will be dismissed from the program. The program director will compilealetter of recommendation for dismissal that includes: a.the nature of the offense or deficiency(ies) with clinical and/or professional context for the severity of the offense or deficiency. b.A summary of due process and relevant remediation of probation opportunities (i.e., constructive advice, improvement plan, probation, suspension, etc.) c.Statement of failure to successfully remediate the offense or deficiencies. d.A statement that dismissal from the program is reportable on all future state licensing and credentialing forms in most states; and e.Signature blocks for the program director, the resident and the /DIO. The resident signature box will be placed belowacheckbox stating, “I accept the terms of dismissal as outlined in this letter”. If the resident refuses to sign and/or accept the terms of dismissal, the terms will go into effect from the date the program director signature is placed on the letter. The resident may choose to appeal the recommendation for dismissal by initiating formal resident grievance process (see policy on grievances and due process). Performance Improvement GME:41 Page 6 of 6 Any information, materials, incident reports, statements, memoranda, or other data which are determined to be privileged are not to be copied or release without the prior authorization of the DIO and his/her designee with advanced notification and/or upon request. Investigation: If the nature of the deficiency warrants an investigation (usually resident suspension or dismissal), the DIO (or his/her designee) will conduct, or order to be conducted, an investigation concerning the grounds for the corrective action request. The investigation is nota"hearing," but may includeadiscussion with the person(s) initiating the request, and with other individuals who may have knowledge of the events involved. The Resident is entitled to makeapersonal appearance before the investigative person(s) atatime scheduled to discuss the matters pertaining to his/her standing. D uring that appearance before the investigative person(s), the Resident may be accompanied by one fellow Resident and one or two other faculty members. A Resident may not be represented by an attorney or any other individual. Upon completion of the investigation,awritten report will be prepared. The DIO may then direct subordinates to proceed with the appropriate level of action described previously. A ppeals: T he Resident may appeal any decision for corrective action in the above process to the GMEC. During the appeals process, The Vice-President of Academic Affairs will convene an Ad Hoc Appeals Committee and will respond to the complaint within five business days. Any request for an appeal must be in writing and submitted to the GME office within five business days of receiving the results of any decision for corrective action. No appeals will be considered after five business days. The request must include supporting documentation. During that appearance, the Resident may be accompanied by one fellow Resident and one or two other faculty members. A grievant may not be represented by an attorney or any other individual. The decision of the GMEC and Ad Hoc Committee is final. VI.REFERENCES: Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education, Institutional Requirements: Revision September26, 2021 ; effective July 1, 2022 T he Council on Podiatric Medical Education (CPME), CPME 330, Procedures for Approval of Podiatric Residencies: April 2022GRADUATE MEDICAL EDUCATION POLICY AND PROCEDURE TITLE: Resident Use of Educational Grant Money GME.43 ORIGINATING SOURCE: Graduate Medical Education Effective Date: 06/01/2023 EXECUTIVE APPROVALS: Michael J. Geria, DO, MS, FACOOG (Dist) Vice President of Academic Affairs/DIO P ERSONNEL: Supersedes: 03/07/2022 07/01/2020 Interns Residents Fellows LOCATIONS : Page: 1 of 4 Vineland Mullica Hill Elmer Bridgeton Woodbury COMMITTEE APPROVALS: N/A I.PURPOSE:The purpose of this policy is to define available funding to residents and programs, including how the fundingcan be used and reimbursed. There are four different types of funding available; they are Program, GraduateMedical Education, Educational Grant Money, and Research Presentation. All funding is issued concurrent with the fiscal year (July 1 – June 30) and must be spent on items purchased during that academic year. II.FORMS/ATTACHMENTS:None III.E QUIPMENT/SUPPLIES:N/A IV.POLICY:Inspira Health Network will provide an educational allowance for all Residents for each year of training. The educational allowance isareimbursable benefit. Housestaff must pay the expense or cost initially and thensubmit the proper documentation for reimbursement. The only exception is payment for travel. The allowan cemust be used in the current academic year. Any unused funds cannot be carried over from year- to-year. T he academic year runs from July 1 to June 30. V.P ROCEDURE:A.Conference Attendance1. Required by the Program Director- GME will reimburse up toapredetermined level based on conference location and associated expenses. Resident can augment with their CME stipend. 2. Education conference of your choice (PGY 2 and higher) - must use education stipend ($1900.00) and PTO time.3.Research presentation- GME will reimburse up to $1500.00. Resident can augment with their CME stipend.B.Education Stipend:1.The current educational allowance is:•PGY-1: One thousand (1,000) dollars.•PGY-2: One thousand nine hundred (1,900) dollars.•PGY-3: One thousand nine hundred (1,900) dollars. Education Expense Allowance GME:43 Page 2 of 3 C.Educational Grant MoneyResident’s use of educational grant money:Any grants provided to Inspira Health Network residents by other institutions will be given to thehospital to cover educational expenses such as conferences/travel and books. Any other purchases made by the resident with money provided byagrant/scholarship will beacknowledged as property of Inspira Health Network, and not of the resident. Any purchases ofelectronic equipment (computers, smart phones, etc.) or other items using money provided byagrant/scholarship will be immediately reimbursed to the resident.The equipment will be given to the resident for his/her personal use for the duration of training but isexpected to be returned to Inspira Health Network upon completion of the training program D.Research Presentation:Inspira Health Network will reimburse residents who attendaconference to present their research, attendaProgram required conference, or Resident choosesaconference with prior approve from the GME office. Any resident wishing to attendaconference to present research must obtain approval from the Vice President of Academic Affairs/DIO, the program director, and the program coordinator, before confirming (reservations, airfare, or registration.•Only three (3) residents, per program, per academic year will be approved for presentations.E.Expenses covered:1.Residents must use PTO for any day(s) they stay past the day(s) they are presenting. 2.The resident may use educational funds, if available for any expenses exceeding the amount allotted for specific conference3.Conference registration (The Graduate Medical Education Office will, at the resident’s request, pay the conference registration fee in advance)4.Coach or economy airfare5.Hotel expenses (room and tax) for the required dates of presentation•C onference syllabus and presentation requirements must be submitted with receipt•Extra days will not be covered.•Any room upgrade may be made, but the increase in the charges will be the responsibility of the resident making the upgrade.•All incidental charges (Room Service, mini-bar, massages, spa, etc.) will be the responsibilityof the resident.6.Rental car, standard class car or lower (Must be approved in advance) 7.Other transportation expenses•Shuttle bus, taxi, or train•Fuel for rental car•Parking8.Reimbursement for personal auto use will be made at the standard IRS rate. 9.Meals $50 per day (alcoholic beverages are not covered)•Detailed restaurant bill and receipt required 10.No reimbursement will be provided with respect to any costs incurred in connection withacompanion (spouse or otherwise) who accompanies the resident.Education Expense Allowance GME:43 Page 3 of 3 11.Reimbursement will only be paid upon presentation ofareceipt and the credit card statement (if applicable) for the associated expense.12.All receipts related to specific travel dates must be submitted together, at the same time within 30 days of the event.Note: Resident guidelines for educational expense reimbursement: Noelectronic devices may be purchased after December 31st of your PGY 2 year (or PGY 3 year for su rgical specialties). M embership fees for specialty organizations may be paid up to December 31st. F.Other Expenses (courses)The cost of BLS, ACLS, ATLS, PALS, NRP and other such requir ed courses, along withany recertification required to maintain your standing in the residency program, while enrolled in theresidency program, will be covered by the residency program onaonetime basis. This means that ifyou do not pass the first time and are required to remediate or retake the course for any reason, theresident will be responsible for the additional cost. If you allow your certification to lapse and do notqualify to recertify as opposed to retake the initial course, you will be responsiblefor the cost of retaking the initial certification course Th is protocol will remain in place regardless of the source of funding; any scholarships/grants will be added to the resident’s existing stipend offered by the hospital and will be subject to the terms outlined above. V I.LIST OF APPROVED ITEMS:List of Approved items for resident reimbursement using education stipend:Medical textbooks (electronic or printed material)Medical Journal Subscriptions (electronic or printed material)Journal Articles (electronic or printed material)Subscriptions to medical information services i.e., “Up To Date”, medical podcasts, (electronic or printedma terial)Medical ConferencesoRegistrationoTravel expenses per policy O nline or in person courses i.e., Medical Spanish Class or other classes related to medicine or research.Board review courses or materials (electronic or printed)Board examinationsMedical journal publication feesElectronic device per existing policy V II.REFERENCES: A ccreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education, Institutional Requirements: Revision September 26, 2021; effective July 1, 2022 T he Council on Podiatric Medical Education (CPM E), CPME 330, Procedures for Approval of Podiatric Residencies: April 2022GRADUATE MEDICAL EDUCATION POLICY AND PROCEDURE TITLE: Time Away from Residency Policy NO: GME.44 ORIGINATING SOURCE: Graduate Medical Education Effective Date: 06/01/2023 EXECUTIVE APPROVALS: Michael J. Geria, DO, MS, FACOOG (Dist) Vice President of Academic Affairs/DIO PERSONNEL: Supersedes: 03/07/2022 07/01/2020 Interns Residents Fellows LOCATIONS: Page: 1 of 5 Vineland Mullica Hill Elmer Bridgeton Woodbury COMMITTEE APPROVALS: N/A I.PURPOSE:The purpose of this policy is to outline the leave time that residents are eligible for and highlight the processes and procedures that need to be undertaken with various leave types. II. FORMS/ATTACHMENTS: None III. EQUIPMENT/SUPPLIES: N/A IV. POLICY: Pursuant of the Inspira Health Leave of Absence Family/Medical Leave of Absence Policy and the ACGMEInstitutional Requirements, CPME regulation and the office of Graduate Medical Education provides PhysicianResidents with job protection, service continuation and compensation continuation when they are absent fromwork that qualifies for leave under federal and state law. DEFINED LEAVES: PAID TIME OFF (PTO) A. HolidaysoAll time off, including holidays, is scheduled at the discretion of the program director.oResidents do not receive paid holidays; however, those who work on official hospital holidays will receiveaCompensation day.oOfficial Hospital Holidays are not automatically observed as time off for house staff, those scheduled will be expected to work on their assigned rotation.  New Year’s Day  Memorial Day  Fourth of July  Labor Day  Thanksgiving  Christmas Day B. VacationoAll residents are given 20 PTO days per academic year. These days can be used according to eachresidency program’s policy. This time does not carry over from year to year, nor are residents eligible for PTO payout for unused time. Sick days and vacation days are counted as PTO days.Compensation days for workingahospital recognized holiday are not counted as PTO daysTime Away from Residency Policy GME:44 Page 2 of 5 (Starting the shift, not ending it on the holiday constitutes working on the holiday). To receive credit for workingaholiday, residents must complete the comp day formand submit to the GME office within 7 days of working the holiday.oIfaconference or other educational activity is mandated by the program that time does not countas PTO and the hours will not be deducted from the reside nts PTO bank. (Educational Leave) oInterns and residents are discouraged from taking more than one week of vacation during anyindividual rotation unless special circumstances arise. There are rotations during which vacationis not permitted. Requestingaweek of vacation does not guarantee that the individual will haveboth the weekend preceding and the weekend following the vacation week off. oA ll requests for PTO must be submitted at the beginning of every quarter and approved by theprogram director and the rotation director. All requests must be in writing using the PTO requestform which is available in the GME office. Coverage for your PTO time mu st be indicated and verified (initialed by the individual(s) providing coverage) on the PTO form including weekendcoverage. Failure to notify the GME office of vacation time off is unprofessional and grounds fordisciplinary action up to and including dismissal from the GME Program. C. Leave of AbsenceRefer to GME.50 Leave of Absence Policy. D. FMLAoTime off due to illness must be reported to the chief medical residents, the supervising Attending, the program director, and program manager.oResidents are not paid for unused PTO and does not carry over to the next appointment year, ifapplicable.oINSPIRA provides job-protected family and medical leave to eligible residents for up to 12 work weeks of unpaid leave duringa12-month period based on the following qualifying events: For incapacity due to pregnancy, prenatal medical care, or childbirth ; To care for the employee’s child after birth, or placement for adoption or foster care; • To care for the employee’s spouse, son, daughter, or parent who hasaserious healthcondition; or • Foraserious health condition that makes the employee unable to perform theemployee’s job.oResidents are eligible for FMLA leave if they have:  Worked for Inspira Health Network for at least one year,  Worked 1,000 hours over the previous 12 months, and  A qualifying event occurs as outlined above.oDirect all questions to and inquire about the most current FMLA leave information with the Inspira Health Network Human Resources Department. E. Sick Time oIt is obvious that illnesses cannot be scheduled but sick time must be reported to the GME officeimmediately. If you are ill and unable to report for your assigned duties, you are requiredto notify the attending physician, the GME office and the chief resident via telephone and email. (no texting).Time Away from Residency Policy GME:44 Page 3 of 5 oFailure to notify the GME office of unscheduled time off is unprofessional and grounds fordisciplinary action up to and including dismissal from the Program. F. Bereavement Leave oIn the event ofadeath in the family, the resident may need to be absent fr om work to attend the funeral and to take care of family and related matters. The resident should notify the Programdirector, and GME office immediatel y. oEmployees will be eligible to be paidamaximum of twenty -four (24) hours for all days off on which they were scheduled to work during the six (6) consecutive days immediately following thedeath of an Immediate Family Member. Immediate family is defined as mother, father,stepmother, stepfather, mother-in-law, father-in-law, sister, brother, stepsister, stepbrother,spouse, child and stepchild or other family member living in the same household as the employee. O ther relationships that fall outside the guidelines of this policy will be reviewed on an individualbasis by Human Resources. oFu ll-time and part-time employees will also be eligible for one (1) regularly scheduled day off (toa maximum of 12-hours) with pay for the death ofagrandparent, grandchild, sister- in-law, br other-in-law, daughter-in-law, son-in-law, stepparent-in-law, and grandparent-in-law. oB ereavement leave shall be taken within one week of the death of the family member. A ny ex ceptions to this timeframe must be reviewed and approved by the program director and GMEoffice. If additional leave is necessary, an employee may request approval for PTO. Employeesare eligible for this benefit after they have satisfactorily completed their new hire introductoryperi od. G. Return to Duty oFor leave due to parental or serious health conditions of the resident orafamily member,aphysician's written “Release to Return to Duty” or equivalent is required with the date the residentis expected to return to resume his or her residency. This information is submitted to the HumanResources Department (HR). oWhen applicable, the residency program director will record in writing the adjusted date requiredf or completion of the PGY or the program because of Extended Resident Leave. One copy isplaced in the resident’s educational file andacopy is submitted to the Office of Graduate Medi cal Education (GME) to process the appropriate Personnel Action. H. Educational Leave oEducational leave must be approved by the GME and Program Director; – also refer to individual Program Specific Policy. oFor unapproved requests or requests that extend beyond the allowable days, the resident may usevacation days, but this must have PD approval.oGME encourages resident presentations at state, regional, and national meetings. Days spent at sucha conference do not count as leave. oR esidents will be allowed to also use Educational Leave for essential examinations, such as Step IIIof the USMLE/ COMLEX Level 3.  A resident is not required to use any portion of their annual PTO to sit for exams requiredto maintain their status in their training program.Time Away from Residency Policy GME:44 Page 4 of 5  Exam Leave requests can only be requested to take exams, not to prepare for exams.  In addition, residents must submit requests for all exams so that they are not inadvertently scheduled for call.oResidents may present information at professional meetings regardless of their current clinicalresponsibility provided they notify their APD to identify adequate coverage and the activity isapproved by the Program Director.  It is the resident’s responsibility to find coverage for his or her clinical duties if chiefs areunable to assign coverage.  The resident should limit his or her absence from his or her clinical responsibility to theshortest time necessary to travel to the meeting, make the presentati on, and return to assigned rotation.oResidents may have three (3) days of Educational Leave for interviews.  Although it is recognized that days off for interviewing may be necessary, these shouldbe kept toaminimum.  All requests for days off for interviewing must be approved by P rogram Director.  Interview days should not be scheduled during Program Specific Rotations.  If the resident applying for fellowship/resident position does not request time off duringprogram specific rotations during interview season, THE LEAVE CAN BE DENIED.Refer to Program Specific Policies.  Time required beyond three (3) days will be taken from vacation.  It is recommended that residents pay close attention to using vacation time if planning on taking vacation at year end. Residents must manage their educational dayseffectively. It is expected that residents will be responsible and make sure they haveplanned well.oNOTE: Leave requests for professional meetings must be submitted to the programdirector using the Application for Education Leave Form. I. Military Leave /Jury DutyoResidents will be granted military leave or leave for jury duty as required by applicablelaw.oPlease contact the IHN Human Resources for specific questions about such leave. J. Graduation oGraduating residents are excused from clinical duties on the day of graduation to attend the graduation ceremony. If not attending, they must useaPTO da y. K. Inclement Weather At no time are residents expected to put themselves at risk due to severe weather. For inclementweather purposes, residents are considered “essential personnel” and are expected to report toassigned rotations that day and office hours, unless advised otherwise by the Program Director orattending that your presence is not needed. You are responsible to contact the attending for yourservice to clarify responsibilities for the day. IfMorning Report or other educational activitiesare cancelled for inclement weather by the Chief Resident and the Program Director, thenTime Away from Residency Policy GME:44 Page 5 of 5 residents will be notified. Residents on call must report for their shift despite inclementweather. Accommodations in the hospital will be offered for those who need to stay on campus, prior to shifts in anticipation of inclement weather. Also, refer to Inspira employee policy for Emergency Staffing HR.21 *IHN* and Weather Inclement ADM.144 *IHN V. PROCEDURE:The procedure for requests for leave shall be defined by the Institutional protocols and the Human Resour ce Department. All requests must be approved by the Program Director and/or the DIO. If any days off exceeds your previous approved duration, an institutional Request for Extended Leave of Absence Form must besubmitted to HR by the Program Director. VI. REFERENCES: Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education, Institutional Requirements: RevisionSeptember 26, 2021; effective July 1, 2022 ; Latest revision effective July 1, 2023 The Council on Podiatric Medical Education (CPME), CPME 330, Procedures for Approval of Podiatric Residencies: April 2022 Bereavement Leave Policy: HR.09, Bereavement Leave HR.09 *IHN* v.7 (policytech.com) Leave of Absence Family/Medical Policy: HR.49, Leave of Absence Family/Medical Leave of AbsenceHR.49 v.6 (policytech.com) Military Leave of Absence: HR.56, Military Leave of Absence HR.56 *IHN* v.5 (policytech.com) Jury Duty Policy: HR. 46, Jury Duty HR.46 *IHN* v.5 (policytech.com) Department of Labor and Workforce Development : https://nj.gov/labor/myleavebenefitsSUBJECT: GME#50 Time away from Residency -Extended Leave of Absence DEPT: RESIDENCY PROGRAM ADMINISTRATION GRADUATE MEDICAL EDUCATION Effective Date: 07/01/2022 Review Date: 3/22/2023 Page 1 of 1 Version # 1; Date Approved: 04/03/2023 I. POLICY Pursuant of the Inspira Health Leave of Absence Family/Medical Leave of Absence Policy and the ACGME Institutional Requirements, the office of Graduate Medical Education provides Physician Residents with job protection, service continuation and compensation continuation when they are absent from work that qualifies for leave under federal and state law. II. RESPONSIBILITY Physician Resident, Graduate Medical Education, Human Resources III. PROCEDURE Leave of Absence requests from Residents will follow the protocols outlined by Human Resources in accordance with the Leave of Absence Family/Medical Leave of Absence HR Policy and ACGME Institutional Requirements. IV. ELIGIBILITY Residents and Fellows are eligible for up to 6 weeks of fully paid leave total during their residency specialty program with Inspira Health in accordance with the ACGME Institutional Requirements. These 6 weeks can be taken consecutively or intermittently. Eligibility for this leave begins the first day of employment. Additional time and compensation will be subject to the Inspira Health Leave of Absence Family/Medical Leave of Absence Policy and applicable law. When an Inspira Resident/Fellow, oraclose family member under their care, is suffering fromaserious ill ness or injury, they may be eligible for disability pay (Up to 6 weeks) under NJ Temporary Disability Insurance or New Jersey Family Leave Insurance. This benefit is paid through the State of NJ Disability Office. The Resident/Fellow is responsible for sub mitting documentation regarding their disability pay from the State of NJ to Inspira Health Human Resources and exhausting PTO time with the exception of 40 hours dedicated for vacation purposes. Inspira will then allocate the necessary funds required toprovide 100% of their weekly salary, following the normal bi -weekly pay schedule. All Inspira Employees are still responsible for paying their benefit deductions throughout their leave. The ACGME leave may be used only one-time during the resident’s traini ng period (not on an annual basis), but once any leave time is used, it exhausts and does not renew. V. COMPENSATION Residents and Fellows will be paid 100% of their salary during the first 6 weeks of their leave of absence. Inspira helps facilitate disab ility pay (when applicable) from the State of NJ Disability Office and the Resident’s PTO time with the exception of 40 hours dedicated for vacation time. Inspira will pay the difference between the disability provided by the state and the Resident/Fellow’sweekly compensation. VI. PROGRAM EDUCATION EXTENSION It is the responsibility of the Program Director to verify and communicate the impact of the training absence on the Physician Resident’s educational success. Based on their assessment of the Physician Resident’s level of clinical competency, that Resident may be subject to meet make -up requirements that meet the board requirements of the specialty. The Program Director will provide the Physician Resident withawritten outline specifying the length oftime his or her training will be extended.GRADUATE MEDICAL EDUCATION POLICY AND PROCEDURE TITLE: Confidentiality, Immunity, and Releases NO: GME.54 ORIGINATING SOURCE: Graduate Medical Education Effective Date: 06/01/2023 EXECUTIVE APPROVALS: Michael J. Geria, DO, MS, FACOOG (Dist) Vice President of Academic Affairs/DIO PERSONNEL: Supersedes: 03/07/2022 07/01/2020 Interns Residents Fellows LOCATIONS : Page: 1 of 3 Vineland Mullica Hill Elmer Bridgeton Woodbury COMMITTEE APPROVALS: N/A I.PURPOSE:The purpose of this policy is to provide guidance for confidentiality, immunity, and releases for all GME programs in the Inspira Health Network as per ACGME and CPME regulations to assure appropriate measuresare taken to minimize the risks. II.FORMS/ATTACHMENTS:None III.EQ UIPMENT/SUPPLIES:N/A IV.POLICY:A.Definitions: The following definitions shall apply:Information: record of proceedings, minutes, interviews, records, reports, forms, memoranda,statements, recommendations, findings, evaluations, opinions, conclusions, actions, dates and otherdisclosures or communications whether in written or oral form relating to any of the subject matterspecified in this manual. R epresentative: an official ofamedical school, Board of any medical centerand any director, ad ministrator, or committee thereof;amedical center Chief Executive Officer or his designee,aC ollege/University or medical school faculty member, an officer of any clinical or academic trainingprogram, or any individual authorized by any of the forgoing to perform any specific informati on ga thering, analysis, use or disseminating functi on. A ctivities: all acts, communications, proceedings, memoranda, statements, recommendations,findings, evaluations, opinions, conclusions, or disclosures performed or made in connection with this or any health care facility or organization's activities. B.A uthorizations: By applying for admission to any of the Inspira Health Network GME Traini ng P rograms, the applicant:Authorizes representatives of the Inspira Health Networkato solicit, provide and actuponinformation bearing on his/her training and qualifications. A grees to be bound by the provisions of this manual. A grees to be bound by the provisions of this article in the release of information by Inspira H ealth Network, as recorded during the GME training program, and described in this Article an Informationcovered, to any agency requesting such information in accordance with his/her written consent. Confidentiality, Immunity, and Releases GME:54 Page 2 of 3 Acknowledges that the provisions of this Article areconditions to any application for GME training. C.Confidentiality of Information : Information with respect to any applicant for GME training submitted, collected or prepared by anyrepresentative of this or any other health care facility or organization, or medical staff, or medical schoolfor the purpose of evaluating the candidate for acceptance to any Inspira Health Network GME TrainingProgram or for concurrent evaluation of the Resident with regard to progress tofulfill requirements of graduation from the GME Training Program, and as such information regards evaluation towarda dvancement toward further training or the documentation of competency to treat conditions or performmedical procedures shall be confidential and shall not be disseminated to anyone other thanar epresentative. T his information shall not be used in any way except as provided herein or except as otherwise requiredbylaw. Such confidentiality shall also extend to information of like kind that may be provided by thirdpa rties. This information shall not become part of any patient's records. D.I mmunity from LiabilityNorepresentative of Inspira Health Network or medical staff and no third party shall be liable to aresident for damages or other relief by reason of providing information, including otherwise privileged orconfidential information, toarepresentative of the medical centers or medical staff or to any other healthcare facility or organization of health professionals concerningaresident who is or has beenamember ofthe GME staff, provided that such representative or third party acts in good faith and without maliceand pr ovided further that such information is related to the performance of the individual as it relatestoattitude, knowledge and skills of the resident, and is reported inafactual manner. E.A ctivities and Information CoveredActivities: The confidentiality and immunity provided by this Article applies to but is not limited to : P eriodic reappraisals for progress in the GME Training Program. V erifications of completion of the residency training program or any portion thereof. A pplication for further training in residency or fellowship fields. S tate licensure boards.Applications for appointments, clinical privileges, or specified service to this or ot her health care facilities.Profiles and profile analysis. Q uality assurance activities.Other medical center and staff activities related to monitoring and maintaining quality andefficient patient care and professional conduct.F.InformationThe information referred to in this Article may relate to the resident's professional qualifications, clinicalability, judgment, character, physical or mental health, emotional stability, professional ethi cs, oranyother matters that might directly or indirectly affect patient care. G.R eleasesEach applicant for any residency training position shall execute general and specific releases inaccordance with the tenor and import of this Article, subject to such requir ements, including those of good faith, absence of malice and the exercise ofareasonable effort to ascertain truthfulness, as maybe ap plicable under the laws of this State.Confidentiality, Immunity, and Releases GME:54 Page 3 of 3 H.Program Director Letters/VerificationsThe DIO or Program director is responsible for signing Program director Letters and verifica tions for Inspira Health Network’s Resident’s. The Resident must complete the request for Program director’s letter and release for immunity form.Requests must be made at least four (4) weeks in advanceof the date the letter(s) are needed. S ee instructions for “GME Program director’s Letters” and “Authorization for Release of Information forResident’s Program director’s Letters” in the Appendices section of this manual V.RE FERENCES: A ccreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education, Institutional Requirements: Revision September 26, 2021; effective July 1, 2022 T he Council on Podiatric Medical Education (CPME), CPME 330, Procedures for Approval of Podiatric Residencies: April 2022GRADUATE MEDICAL EDUCATION POLICY AND PROCEDURE TITLE: Resident Request for Program Director’sLetter NO: GME.55 ORIGINATING SOURCE: Graduate Medical Education Effective Date: 06/01/202 3 EXECUTIVE APPROVALS: Michael J. Geria, DO, MS, FACOOG (Dist) Vice President of Academic Affairs/DIO PERSONNEL: Supersedes: 03/07/2022 07/01/2020 Interns Residents Fellows LOCATIONS : Page: 1 of 1 Vineland Mullica Hill Elmer Bridgeton Woodbury COMMITTEE APPROVALS: N/A I.PURPOSE:The purpose for this policy is to provide guidelines on how to requestaletter from program directors. II.FORMS/ATTACHMENTS:None III.EQUIPMENT/SUPPLIES:N/A IV.POLICY:The Program Director or DIO is responsible for preparing program director’s Lettersfor all Inspira Health Network Interns/Residents.V.PROCEDURE:Be anticipatory. You must allowaminimum of four (4) weeks from the time of applying foraProgram director’sLetter for it to be sent to your requested sources. Letters will be written in theorder that applications are received. Please plan. T he Authorization for Release of Information Form for program director’s Letters can be obtained from the Officeof Graduate Medical Education. You must indicate the dates of your internship and residencyand reason for the letter. No letter will be written without this authorization. You should also submitashort vita or autobiographicalsketch with your major accomplishments. You must also indicate where you desire the letters to be sent. T he program director’s letters will include dates of attendance, as well as specific information fromyour Resident file. Comments made on your evaluations by the clinical faculty will be included in the letter. VI.REFERENCES: A ccreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education, Institutional Requirements: Revision September 26, 2021; effective July 1, 2022 T he Council on Podiatric Medical Education (CPME), CPME 330, Procedures for Approval of Podiatric Residencies: April 2022 GRADUATE MEDICAL EDUCATION POLICY AND PROCEDURE TITLE: Program Closure or Reduction Requirements NO: GME.56 ORIGINATING SOURCE: Graduate Medical Education Effective Date: 05/22/2023 EXECUTIVE APPROVALS: Michael J. Geria, DO, MS, FACOOG (Dist) Vice President of Academic Affairs/DIO PERSONNEL: Supersedes: 07/01/2020 Interns Residents Fellows LOCATIONS : Page: 1 of: 2 Vineland Mullica Hill Elmer Bridgeton Woodbury COMMITTEE APPROVALS: N/A I.PURPOSE: This policy delineates the responsibilities of leadership when the closure of the Accreditation Council forGraduate Medical Education (ACGME)-accredited Sponsoring Institution, The Council on Podiatric Medical Education (CPME), at Inspira Health Network, or one of its training programs, is necessary, or should one of its programs be required to reduce its complement. II.FORMS/ATTACHMENTS:None III.EQ UIPMENT/SUPPLIES:N/A IV.POLICY: T he policy applies to the Designated Institutional Official (DIO), Graduate Medical Education Committ ee (G MEC), departmental ACGME-accredited program and CPME leadership at Inspira Health Network. V.P ROCEDURE: Inthe event ofadiscontinuation ofatraining program, Inspira Health Network agrees that it willmake every effort to place displaced interns/residents/fellows in another appropri ate GME program. T he training institution shall immediately notify the appropriate accrediting body and its traineesofaprogram closure or reduction in positions, which would impact trainees prior to programcompletion. Ifa training institution reduces in size or closesaprogram every attempt should be made to permitthe current interns/residents/fellows enrolled in the program to complete their training prior tosuch acti on. Inthe event ofahospital or program closure or reduction in positions which would impact traineesprior to program completion, the training institution shall immediately notify the appropriateaccrediting body to aid in placement of the enrolled interns/residents/fellowsin other programs. Program Closure or Reduction Requirements GME:56 Page 2 of 2 Severance pay shall be provided per the terms of the residency training contract when institutionalprogram closure or reduction decisions prevent the interns/residents/fellows from programcompletion in that or another geographically proximate program arranged by the institution VI.REFERENCES: Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education, Institutional Requirements : Revision September 26, 2021; effective July 1, 2022 T he Council on Podiatric Medical Education (CPME), CPME 330, Procedures for Approval of PodiatricR esidencies: April 2022GRADUATE MEDICAL EDUCATION POLICY AND PROCEDURE TITLE: Disaster Response Policy NO: GME.57 ORIGINATING SOURCE: Graduate Medical Education Effective Date: 05/22/2023 EXECUTIVE APPROVALS: Michael J. Geria, DO, MS, FACOOG (Dist) Vice President of Academic Affairs/DIO PERSONNEL: Supersedes: 03/07/2022 07/01/2020 Interns Residents Fellows LOCATIONS : Page: 1 of: 3 Vineland Mullica Hill Elmer Bridgeton Woodbury COMMITTEE APPROVALS: N/A I.PURPOSE:The purpose of this policy is to define the basic procedures and assigned responsibilities to efficientlyrestructure housestaff training experiences followingadisaster. ACGME and CPME requires that Sponsoring Institutions haveaDisaster Response policy for GME programs. II.SCOPE: This policy is inclusive to all Graduate Medical Education programs at Inspira Health Network.This policy is in addition to the Emergency Management policies for Inspira Heal th Network. In spira Health Network now uses the Swift 911 Emergency Communication application. •Text “Swift911” to 99538 to download the Swift 911 Public App and follow the steps received via Text(messaging rates may apply) or, Search Swift911 Public App directly in the App Store.•Please be sure to register with your Inspira work addr ess and your Inspira email address. Next, if prompte d, select “Inspira” as your home publisher.•If you work in multiple locations, be sure to select each region. Most will register under one of following:Bridgeton Region, Elmer Region, Vineland Region,or Woodbury Region.•A 4-digit Pin code will be sent to you. That pin is required to complete the registration process. You will beasked to enter your phone number and address. Please use your cell phone number and you Inspira address. “ Inspira Health Network is committed to being prepared to deal with disasters; whether from man -made, natural, internal, or external sources. The safety and well-being of every patient and employee in our charge is our focus. Inspira uses the Hospital Incident Command System (HICS) to manage all incidents/disasters. HICS is an incident management system based on the Incident Command System (ICS) that assists hospitals in improving their emergency management planning, response, and recovery capabilities for unpla nned and planned events. HICS is consistent with ICS and the National Incident Management System (NIMS) principles. “ III.F ORMS/ATTACHMENTS:None IV.EQUIPMENT/SUPPLIES:N/A Disaster Response Policy GME:57 Page 2 of 3 V.POLICY:This policy applies to resident physicians who are und er fully executed agreements for ACGME and CPME accredited programs at the timeadisaster occurs. Shouldadisaster occur from the time an offer letter isexecuted withapotential resident until the actual start date begins, the Sponsoring Institution will not beresponsible for the resident’s graduate medical education program. I MPLEMENTATION: The implementation of this Policy and the monitoring compliance of this policy is the responsibility of the ACGME Designated Institutional Official (DIO). The DIO will notify the appropriate academic and employment leadership officials at the institution as needed (i.e., CEO, CFO, General Counsel, COO, etc.). This policy includes three (3) disaster scenarios: 1.A disaster at the Sponsoring Institution or at the Sponsored Program sites.2.A disaster at training sights or facilities that result in the interruption of training while repairsare made.3.A disaster for the entire region, i.e., South Jersey or Delaware Valley region. D isaster resulting in temporary destruction of the Sponsoring Institution: The DIO and appropriate leadership will meet to implement this policy and develop specific plans for any given situation, as well as involve other representatives from the respective institutions and programs as deemed necessary. General Principles: 1. Residents in ACGME and CPME accredited programs will haveacontinuation of salary, benefits,and malpractice coverage continued by the Sponsoring Institution. 2. If the duration of the disaster should exceed 30 days, then every attempt will be made to relocate residents to an alternate training facility/institution. 3. The receiving facility/institution must have access to review the credentials of the residentsproposed for temporary transfer to their facility, and based on such revie w, will have the right to accept or decline individual residents. 4. An affiliation agreement or program letter of agreement will be necessary and expedited during thedisaster using the PLA specifically developed for disasters. 5. Institutions receiving residents duringadisaster will be able to claim the training time on their CMScost report. The Sponsoring Institution will adjust its CMS cost report accordingly. 6. Once the Sponsoring Institution can resume its training activities, the residents will immediatelyresume training at their Sponsoring Institution. Disaster resulting in permanent destruction of the Sponsoring Institution/s: The DIO and appropriate leadership will meet to implement this policy and deve lop specific plans for any given situation, as well as involve other representatives from the respective institutions and programs as deemed necessary. General principles: 1. Residents in ACGME and CPME accredited programs will haveacontinuation of salary, benefits, and malpractice coverage continued by the Sponsoring Institution. 2. Residents will be “orphaned” by the Sponsoring Institution to the receiving institution, with thefollowing guidelines: Disaster Response Policy GME:57 Page 3 of 3 A.Residents are eligible to be orphaned due to the closing ofaprogram or hospital.B.The Program director and/or DIO of the receiving institution will contact the appropriateaccrediting body to request an increase in their resident complement during the disasterperiod.C.The receiving institution will agree to take the orphaned resident/s.D.The Sponsoring Institution sendsaletter to the receiving institution indicating the “orphan”status of the resident/s.E.The receiving institution signs the letter and returns to the Sponsoring Institution.F.The DIO from the Sponsoring Institution and CFO sendacopy of this letterto CMS noti ngthe “orphan” status of the resident/s, andastatement that the Sponsoring Institution will beclaim reimbursement on their cost report for the remainder of the resident’s training.G.For cost reporting purposes, the Sponsoring and receiving instituti ons will adjust their FTE counts.Disaster for the Entire Region: Due to the size of the New Jersey/ Philadelphia region, shouldadisaster occur for the entire region, it is impossible to have all programs encompassed inasingle area or institution. For this reason, an agreement might be necessary for institutions outside the New Jersey/Philadelphia region. VI.REFERENCES: Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education, Institutional Requirements: Revision September 26, 2021; effective July 1, 2022 T he Council on Podiatric Medical Education (CPME), CPME 330, Procedures for Approval of Podiatric Residencies: April 2022GRADUATE MEDICAL EDUCATION POLICY AND PROCEDURE TITLE: Guidelines for Promotion, Non-Promotion, Dismissal and Resignation NO: GME.58 ORIGINATING SOURCE: Graduate Medical Education Effective Date: 06/01/2023 EXECUTIVE APPROVALS: Michael J. Geria, DO, MS, FACOOG (Dist) Vice President of Academic Affairs/DIO PERSONNEL: Supersedes: 03/07/2022 07/01/2020 Interns Residents Fellows LOCATIONS : Page: 1 of 3 Vineland Mullica Hill Elmer Bridgeton Woodbury COMMITTEE APPROVALS: N/A I.PURPOSE:To establishapolicy for all GME Programs regarding promotion of trainees and advancement intraining level leading to completion of the program. We anticipate every resident who enters the program will graduate in theanticipated time frame; however, satisfactory performance is needed each year for continuation in the program and/or advancement to the next level. All GME agreements are renewed onayearly basis, and as with any educational program, isbased on the successful completion of all program requirements. B ackground Progression through the residency program must be based on documentable educational goals and objectives. II.F ORMS/ATTACHMENTS:None III.EQ UIPMENT/SUPPLIES:N/A IV.POLICY:Through the course of training,aresident is expected to acquire increasing competence in the discipline in which he/she is training. Promotion to the next level of training (e.g., R-1 to R-2) is based on the achievement of Program specific competencies, performance parameters and specialty-specific Milestones. These can include specific cognitive, clinical, technical, interpersonal and communication skills,professional behaviors and ethical conduct as determined by the Program as level appropriate completion of curricular objectives, mastery of clinical materials and/or technical skills, and satisfaction of additional applicable ACGME Program competencies or The Council on Podiatric Medical Education regulations. R esidents must have completed and passed the series (in their entirely) of applicable licensing exams,COMLEX or USMLE, prior to the start of PGY3. Failure to do so is grounds for dismissal fr om the residency training program. If you do not pass by the start of your PGY3 year, the Inspira Health NetworkGME program is not obligated to hold your position in the residency training program. R esidents who satisfactorily meet all requirements for promotion in each year as well as expected specialty Guidelines for Promotion GME:58 Page 2 of 3 Milestones benchmarks are expected to be advanced to each successive level until all Program requirements for graduation from the Program have been completed. Promotion to successively higher levels withinatraining program shall be based on the decision of the Program Director who may be guided and informed by the Program faculty and who shall receive input from the Clinical Competency Committee. Pr ograms must communicate to residents’ expectations of performance/achievement required for advancement. This can be done through appropriate Program and/or rotation specific written curricula (electronically, through New Innovations) which are reviewed with residents at the beginning of their training and/or in each individual year and/or at the start of each rotation or quarterly reviews. TheGraduate Medical Education Committee (GMEC) reviews overall promotion activity and any adverse actions taken by Programs as part of the program annual report process. T his Policy does not apply to individuals appointed inatraining track or toaprogram expected or intended to be of limited duration (e.g., one-year preliminary positions). V.P ROCEDURE: No n-renewal of appointment or non-promotion: In instances whenaresident will not be promoted to the next level of training including graduation from the Program or ifaresident's agreement will not be renew ed, the Program must provide the resident withawritten noti ce of intent no later than four months prior to the end of the resident's current agreement. If the primary reason(s) for the nonrenewal or non-promotion occurs within four months prior to the end of the current agreement, the Program must provide the residentwith as much written notice of the intent not to renew or not to promote as circumstances reasonably allow, prior to the end of the agreement. The DIO and GME Office must be informed of any decision to non- renew or non-promotearesident. E xtensions: Ifaresident's performance has been significantly deficient, and additional training time is required, the Program Director may elect to authorize an extension of the resident's contract. No resident mayremain at the same level of training for more than 24 months, exclusive of leave. Funding for any such extension cannot be assured by GME, and it is the Department's responsibility to makeagood faith effort to acquire funding from available sources such as affiliated participating hospitals, grants, practice plan, etc. for any such extension.An extension of training does not ensure subsequent promotion or successf ul completion ofatraining program (Review your program specific policy). Thetraining level withinaresidency or fellowship program may not necessarily correspond to the trainees post graduate year (PGY) level. Re signation: Resignation isavoluntary act initiated byaresident to terminate participation in the residency training program with Inspira Health Network. Although notice is not required, Inspira Health Networkrequests at least 4 weeks' written resignation notice from all residents. Although resignation will end yourparticipation in the training program, it is not implied that resignation will terminate the obligationscontained within the resident contract. Unless you are grantedarelease from the training program, you maynot be eligible to participate in some other residency training programs.Guidelines for Promotion GME:58 Page 3 of 3 Notice of Due Process. Residents are entitled to and must be informed of their right to receive due process and implement the grievance and appeals procedures in the Academic Performance or other applicable Due Process Policy if they receive written notice either of: (i)the intent not to renew their agreement(s), or(ii)of intent to not promote or not graduate the resident. VI.REFERENCES: A ccreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education, Institutional Requirements : Revision September 26, 2021; effective July 1, 2022 A ccreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education, Common Program Requirements,https://www.acgme.org/what-we-do/accreditation/common-program-requirements/ The Council on Podiatric Medical Education (CPME), CPME 330, Procedures for Approval of Podiatric Residencies: April 2022GRADUATE MEDICAL EDUCATION POLICY AND PROCEDURE TITLE: Granting of Certificate/Letter of Completion of GME Program NO: GME.59 ORIGINATING SOURCE: Graduate Medical Education Effective Date: 06/01/2023 EXECUTIVE APPROVALS: Michael J. Geria, DO, MS, FACOOG (Dist) Vice President of Academic Affairs/DIO PERSONNEL: Supersedes: 03/07/2022 07/01/2020 Interns Residents Fellows LOCATIONS : Page: 1 of 2 Vineland Mullica Hill Elmer Bridgeton Woodbury COMMITTEE APPROVALS: N/A I.PURPOSE:To provide the resident with verification of satisfactory achievement and time spent inaresidency/fellowshipprogram. To provide evidence that the resident has been discharged of responsibilities to the residency/fellowship programand the institution. II.FORMS/ATTACHMENTS:None III.EQ UIPMENT/SUPPLIES:N/A IV.POLICY:Completion certificates will be issued to residents/fellows who complete periods of training satisfactorily. V.P ROCEDURE:On satisfactory completion ofaresidency training program, Inspi ra Health Network shall award the residentacer tificate of completion. A ll Program specific graduation requirements must be met by June 30 th, or other date, if an off-cycleresi dent. Such certificates or letters will be granted to the Resident only af ter the following requirements have been met:Performance Evaluations are received and satisfactorily documented all fifty -two weeks of each year of training in accordance with ACGME or CPME regulations and the training program.Any remediation recommended on Resident Performance Evaluations has been satisfied, verified by theprogram director, and reported to the Office of Graduate Medical Education.Any remediation required for attendance at core lectures or departmental progress is satisfied and reportedto the Office of Graduate Medical Education.Any corrective action measures taken have been satisfied and reported to the Office of Graduate MedicalEducation.Any fair hearing proceedings have been completed and corrective actions satisfied and reported to the Office of Graduate Medical Education. Granting of Certificate/Letter of Completion of GME Program GME:59 Page 2 of 2 All service evaluations by the resident, faculty evaluations by the resident, and all logs are completed andsubmitted to the Office of Graduate Medical Education.All medical center supplies, materials, equipment, books, beepers, passes, and records have beensatisfactorily returned and verified.All medical records for patients assigned to the resident have been satisfactorily completed at each division of the medical center.You must have completed and passed the series (in their entirety) of applicable licensing exams, COMLEXor USMLE, prior to the start of PGY3. Failure to do so is grounds for dismissal from the residency traini ng pr ogram. If you do not pass by the start of your PGY3 year, the Inspira Health Network GME program isnot obligated to hold your position in the residency training program.Fulfillment of all scholarly activities as required by your specific progr am.Graduating residents are excused from clinical duties on the day of graduation. V I.REFERENCES: A ccreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education, Institutional Requirements : Revision September 26, 2021; effective July 1, 2022 T he Council on Podiatric Medical Education (CPME), CPME 330, Procedures for Approval of Podiatric Residencies: April 2022GRADUATE MEDICAL EDUCATION POLICY AND PROCEDURE TITLE: House Staff Code of Conduct NO: GME.60 ORIGINATING SOURCE: Graduate Medical Education Effective Date: 06/01/2023 EXECUTIVE APPROVALS: Michael J. Geria, DO, MS, FACOOG (Dist) Vice President of Academic Affairs/DIO PERSONNEL: Supersedes: 03/07/2022 07/01/2020 Interns Residents Fellows LOCATIONS : Page: 1 of 5 Vineland Mullica Hill Elmer Bridgeton Woodbury COMMITTEE APPROVALS: N/A I.PURPOSE:To establishapolicy and protocol for residents (where "residents" refers to both residents and fellows) participating in the Inspira Health network (IHN) Graduate Medical Education (GME) programs, to clarify theexpectations of all house staff when interacting with othe rs. All residents working at IHN, and its affiliates must treat others with respect, courtesy, and dignity, and must report conduct that is disruptive or otherwiseinappropriate. II.FORMS/ATTACHMENTS:Attachment A: Professional PledgeAttachment B: Manual Acknowledgement III.EQ UIPMENT/SUPPLIES:N/A IV.POLICY:Principles of Partnership A.P reamble: The physicians including Interns, Residents and Fellows, and the Inspira Health Network medicalstaff recognizes their considerable interdependence in the rapidly changing health care environment. Theya cknowledge that their success in competing in the marketplace and their ability jointly to deliver high qualityhealth care depend in large part upon their ability to communicate well, collaborate effectively, and workasate am to optimize and monitor outcomes.Physicians and staff further acknowledge that there are many participants in the process of effective healthcare, including patients, their families, health system staff, allied health professionals, and others, and that working harmoniously with them isanecessary aspect of modern health care. Both parties affirm thateveryone, both recipients and providers of care, must be treated inadignified, respectful manner always fort heir mutual goal of high-quality health care to be accomplished.Physicians and staff further affirm that it is their mutual responsibility to work together in an ongoi ng, pos itive, dynamic process that requires frequent, continual communication and feedback. Both agreeto de vote the necessary time and resources toward achieving these goals and maintainingapositive, co llaborative relationship between them and with other providers and recipients of care.B.Principles: To accomplish these goals, physicians and staff agree to the following principles and guidelinesand to work collaboratively to promote them in the organization and in the community. 1.R espectful Treatment House Staff Code of Conduct GME:60 Page 2 of 5 All members of the health care provider team (physicians, hospital staff, vendors, contract personnel, etc.) and all direct and indirect recipients of health care (patients, their families, visitors, etc.) shall be treated inarespectful, dignified manner always. Language, nonverbal behavior and gestures, attitudes, etc. shall reflect this respect and dignity of the individual and affirm his/her value to theprocess of effective, efficient health care. 2. LanguagePhysicians and staff agree not to use language directed toward physicians, staff or patients that is profane,vulgar, sexually suggestive, or explicit, intimidating, degrading, or racially/ethnically/religiously slurri ngin any professional setting related to the hospital and the care of its patients. 3. B ehaviorThe parties agree to refrain from any behavior that is deemed to be intimidating or harassing, sexually orotherwise, including but not limited to unwanted touching, sexual touching, sexually oriented ordegrading jokes or comments, requests for sexual favors, obscene gestures, physical throwing of objects, or making inappropriate comments regarding physicians, hospital staff, other providers,or patients. 4.C onfidentialityPhysicians and staff agree to always maintain complete confidentiality of patient care information, inamanner consistent with generally accepted principles of medical confidentiality. The par ties further recognize that physicians and hospital staff have the right to have certain personal and performanceproblems and concerns about competence dealt with inaconfidential manner inaprivate setting.Physicians and staff agree to maintain this confidentiality and to seek proper, professional, objective arenas in which to deal with these issues. 5.Fe edbackPhysicians and staff agree to give all parties prompt, direct, constructive feedback when concerns ordisagreements arise. The parties recognize the necessity of describing such behavior in objective, be havioral terms and that such feedback should be given directly to the person(s) involved through theappropriate channel, inaconfidential, private setting. 6. C larification of RolesPhysicians and staff agree that the delivery of health care involvesacomplex, dynamic set of roles andresponsibilities and that clarity and agreement on these roles and responsibilities are necessary. Bothparties agree to work together to achieve and maintain clar ity and agreement on these roles and to support each other in the carrying out of these responsibilities. V.RE FERENCES: A ccreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education, Institutional Requirements : Revision September 26, 2021; effective July 1, 2022 The Council on Podiatric Medical Education (CPME), CPME 330, Procedures for Approval of Podiatric Residencies: April 2022House Staff Code of Conduct GME:60 Page 3 of 5 Attachment A: PROFESSIONALISM PLEDGE In order to meet the goals of residency training in PROGRAM NAME, it is acknowledged that standards for professionalism are important and necessary. Asaresident in this program at Inspira Health Network, I agree and commit to the following behaviors and actions: ATTITUDE: •Acknowledge my fundamental obligations is to place my patients’ welfare uppermost; quality health care and patient safety will always be my prime objective •Createateam atmosphere to support my colleagues in the endeavor to provide high quality patient-centric care •Recognize medical students and other leaners as important members of clinical teams and facilitate their learning whenever possible withacommitment to teaching and providing feedback •Be compassionate towards patients, their family members, and colleagues •Show appreciation of others’ skills and talents •Acknowledge that there are always areas for personal improvement •Lead by example, with positive attitude and calm temperament •Recognize the rapid pace or change in the medical knowledge and the consequent need to prepare ourselves to maintain our expertise and competency throughout our professional lifetime •Strive for professional excellence and seek opportunities to improve my performance •Accept the obligation to secure direct assistance from faculty or appropriately experienced residents/fellows when confronted with high-risk situations or with clinical decisions that exceed my confidence or skillCOMMUNICATION: •Address patients, visitors, and colleagues inarespectful and courteous manner consistent withaculture of patient safety •Welcome constructive feedback of my performance from faculty and all others who observe my performance •Provide honest and constructive feedback of my fellow residents/fellows, students, and faculty when requested •Complete all EMR documentation in an accurate and timely manner in accordance with departmental policy •Ensure that social media activity is consistent with my standing professional practitioner in training and never violates patient privacyRESPECT: •Guide and counsel patients to help them make informed decisions and autonomous choices, consistent with their goals and values, and free from coercion and manipulations •Be sensitive to the impact of age, gender identity, sexual orientation, religion, culture, ethnicity, socioeconomic status, beliefs, behaviors, and disabilities on patients’ experiences and decision- making •Recognize I have my own unconscious biases and take steps to learn about them and mitigate them •Speak up on behalf of patients, colleagues, students, and others when they are the target of discriminatory or offensive language •Create and maintain appropriate ethical and professional boundaries between patients, staff and colleagues •Treat every employee, patient, and visitor within the health system with respectHouse Staff Code of Conduct GME:60 Page 4 of 5 •Adhere to my department’s professional appearance code, where applicable •Follow standards for patient privacy of individually identifiable health information as required under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability (HIPAA) •Maintain the confidentiality of information of all types (e.g. that which relates to students, faculty, staff, and others with whom I work)ACCOUNTABILITY: •Recognize that residents’ mental and physical wellness has an impact on patient safety, quality of care and education •Be attentive to these aspects of my own life and those of my colleagues •Seek and provide help for myself and others when deficiencies in physical and mental wellness are noted •Hold myself and colleagues accountable to our professional code as outlined above I,, asaresident in PROGRAM NAME at Inspira Health Network, pursuant to GME Policy: Housestaff Code of Conduct, will embrace the principles outlined above and assume the delineated responsibilities for the safe, effective, and compassionate care of patients, consistent with my level of education and experience. This care will be provided under supervision of the department faculty and in accordance with ACGME institutional and program requirements. Resident Signature Date Program Director Date House Staff Code of Conduct GME:60 Page 5 of 5 Attachment B: GRADUATE MEDICAL EDUCATION RESIDENT MANUAL ACKNOWLEDGEMENT FORM I have received the 2023-2024 Inspira Health Resident Manual, and I understand that it is my responsibility to read and comply with the policies contained in this handbook and any revisions made to it. Employee's Signature Employee's Name (Print) Date GRADUATE MEDICAL EDUCATION POLICY AND PROCEDURE TITLE: HIPAA and EMTALA NO: GME.61 ORIGINATING SOURCE: Graduate Medical Education Effective Date: 05/24/2023 EXECUTIVE APPROVALS: Michael J. Geria, DO, MS, FACOOG (Dist) Vice President of Academic Affairs/DIO PERSONNEL: Supersedes: 03/07/2022 07/01/2020 Interns Residents Fellows LOCATIONS : Page: 1 of 3 Vineland Mullica Hill Elmer Bridgeton Woodbury COMMITTEE APPROVALS: N/A I.PURPOSE:To ensure that the privacy and confidentiality of information about patients treated at Inspira Health Network is maintained by all personnel to comply with the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 199 6 (HIPAA). To ensure that Inspira Health Network comply with the Emergency Medical Treatment & Active Labor Act(EMTALA) and subsequent federal interpretive guidelines and state regulations. Ifapatient “Comes to theEmergency Department.” II.F ORMS/ATTACHMENTS:None III.EQ UIPMENT/SUPPLIES:N/A IV.POLICY: H IPAA It is the policy of Inspira Health Network to ensure the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of informati on, using the supporting principals of:DENY - limiting use & disclosure of PHI to the minimum necessaryDETECT- use system log auditingDETER- grant information onaneed-to-know basis only Workforce Responsibilities Every member of the workforce who is an authorized user shall: Maintain the confidentiality of Inspira Health Network information.Safeguard Inspira Health Network information and assets placed within their control.Only use Inspira Health Network information and system resources for their intended purpose based on ajustifiable business need.Receive security training before accessing any system containing sensitive data, incl uding ePHI. EMTALA was enacted because of growing concern that hospitals were “dumping” or turning away patients in need of emergency medical care because they were unable to pay for their care or their insurance plan did not cover the care. The original act was intended to protect patients from discrimination based on ability to pay. Its scope has been HIPAA and EMTALA GME:61 Page 2 of 3 broadened to include protection against discrimination toward any patient Group based on race, religion, sex, age, diagnosis, ability to pay or insurance status. The law applies to any person who “comes to the Hospital” for emergency medical care. “Comes to the Hospital” is described as Hospital property or “campus” including the main hospital buildings, emergency department, parking lots/garage, public sidewalks and driveways and any buildings owned by the Hospital that are located within 250 yards of the Hospital. EM TALA requires three duties of the Hospital: 1. ProvideaMedical Screening Exam (MSE) 2. Provide Stabilizing Treatment 3. Appropriately Transfer V.PROCEDURE:HIPAA Duty to report:Any workforce member, who observes, becomes aware of or suspectsawrongful use or disclosure of PHI is required to report their suspicion as soon as possible to their Department Manager. A workforce member who fails to report eitherasuspected or actual violation will have violated this policy, and may be subject to disciplinary action, up to and including termination. Ifaworkforce member is found to violate any policy or procedure relating to privacy and security, Inspira Health Network has the right to implement its corrective action procedures. Additionally, workforce members may be subject to civil and criminal penalties form is appropriation of PHI. T here are several types of Breaches:Level 1, Privacy Breach: Personal Gain or Malice occurs whenaworkforce member accesses, reviews, or discusses PHI or other sensitive information for personal gain or with malicious intent such as reviewingapatient record for personal reasons, compilingamailing list for personal use or for sale, or providing PHI belonging toapublic personality to the media for monetary reparation. Disciplinary Sanctions are termination and reporting to applicable law enforcement officials, regulatory, accreditation, and licensure organizations.Level 2 is Curiosity, which occurs whenaworkforce member intentionally accesses or discusses PHI or other sensitive information for purposes other than the care of the patient but not for personal gain. (workforce member intentionally looks up birth dates, weights, or diagnosis), shares his/her system password, accesses, and reviewsarecord of any patient out of concern or curiosity, including their own record orafamily member; reviewsapublic personality’s record oraworkforce member printsacopy ofalab report forafriend to make it more convenient for him/her. Disciplinary Sanctions are contingent on the facts surrounding the incident. Sanctions may be verbal counseling, written corrective action, final written corrective action that may also include suspension and termination.L evel 3 is Carelessness, which occurs whenaworkforce member unintentionally or carelessly accesses, reviews, or reveals PHI or other sensitive information to him/herself or others withoutalegitimate need to know the information, such as discussing PHI inapublic area, leaving documentation containing PHI inapublic area, leavingacomputer unattended and unlocked in an accessible area with PHI. EMTALA HIPAA and EMTALA GME:61 Page 3 of 3 Ifaperson asks you where he/she can get medical care, direct or escort the person to the Emergency Department. All residents must complete the EMTALA Self-Learning packet at orientation and sign an “Attestation Form’ stating that they have read and understood the Inspira EMTALA. VI.REFERENCES: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Health Information Privacy, HIPAA for Pr ofessional, R eviewed May 17, 2021, https://www.hhs.gov/hipaa/for- professionals/index.html U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Emergency Medical Treatment & Labor Act (EMTALA), Issued by: Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS), Issue Date: March 26, 2021, Date Published: December 31, 2020, Unique ID: HHS-0938-2016-F-8527, https://www.hhs.gov/guidance/document/emergency -medical-treatment-labor-act-emtala-0GRADUATE MEDICAL EDUCATION POLICY AND PROCEDURE TITLE: Case/Procedure Logs NO: GME.63 ORIGINATING SOURCE: Graduate Medical Education Effective Date: 06/01/2023 EXECUTIVE APPROVALS: Michael J. Geria, DO, MS, FACOOG (Dist) Vice President of Academic Affairs/DIO PERSONNEL: Supersedes: 03/07/2022 07/01/2020 Interns Residents Fellows LOCATIONS : Page: 1 of 22 Vineland Mullica Hill Elmer Bridgeton Woodbury COMMITTEE APPROVALS: N/A I.PURPOSE : The Accreditation Coun cil for G raduate Medical Education (ACGME) requires many specialties to track trainee experiences in the ACGME Resident Case Log System to track clinical experiences. This datais used to verify indiv idual trainee competence in patient care includingto monitor and ensure the adequacy of overall clinical volumes for their programs. The number of cases performed byatrainee is viewed asasurrogate for work experience, which might correlate with patient care, quality,safety, and outcomes. The Council on Podiatric Medical Education (CPME) specific guidelines to be followe d. The members of the Council’s R esidency Review Committee (RRC) reviewed the Guide to Proper Logging of Surgical P rocedures and accepted recommended clarifications and revisions to the Gu ide, to be effective July 1, 2018. The memorandum is attached to this policy for review. The purpose of this policy is to set the way case/procedure logs for the Inspira Health Networkpatients are to be maintained to assure appropriate measures are taken to mi nimize the risk to patient privacy. II.FORMS/ATTACHMENTS: The Council on Podiatric Medical Education (CPME) Memorandum: Attachment A III. EQUIPMENT/SUPPLIES: N/A IV. POLICY: The case/procedure logs maintained by trainees to document their clinical experience requireme nts must be protected so that only authorized individuals have access to patient information that reside in those logs. Each Program Director of training programs that rotate at the Inspira Health Network sites is responsible for establishingastandardizedprocess and documentation requirements for trainees to maintain case/procedure logs. Some programs are required by the ACGME to have trainees maintain the case/procedure logs electronically in the ACGME Resident Case Log System. Other programs may use the ACGME Resident Case Log System,the New Innovations Residency Management System or Residency Review Co mmittee (RRC) for tracking purpo ses. Case/Procedure Logs GME:6 3 Page 2 of 22 V. PROCEDURE: Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME) Resident/Fellow Portal Sign Up The Resident/Fellow Portal provides residents and fellows access to: •Profile information (and the ability to edit some information) •Graduate Medical Education History •Program-level aggregated Resident/Fellow Survey Reports •Milestone Evaluations Residents/Fellows in programs that use Case Logs already have access to these features by default and do not need to sign up. Residents/Fellows in programs that do not use Case Logs must opt-in by providing the information below to createaPortal account. Users in receipt of login credentials may access the system via the https://apps.acgme.org/ads First Name:____________ Last Name____________ Date of Birth: National Provider ID (NPI): Select type of medical school from which you graduated: COCA Accreditation College of Osteopathic Medicine Canadian Medical School Non-US Medical School US Non-Accredited Medical School Select your medical school from the drop box: Use the email address from your residency or fellowship program: The Case Log System utilizes Common Procedural Terminology (CPT) codes. The five -character codes and descriptions included in the system are obtained from CPT, copyright 2021, by the American Medical Association (AMA). CPT is developed by the AMA asalisting of descriptive terms and five character identifying codes and modifiers for reporting medical services and procedures. Case/Procedure Logs GME:6 3 Page 3 of 22 New Innovations https://www.new-innov.com/logger Log Procedure on Desktop To logaprocedure, follow these steps: 1.Go to Logger > Procedure > Add tab 2.Complete the necessary fields. Those withared asterisk are required. 3. To save the procedure, you have various options: •Add Procedure - Allows you to add another procedure for this same patient for the same day. Once you have added all procedures, click Save or Save & Retain. •Save - Saves this procedure and refreshes the page so you can enteranew procedure •Save and Retain - Saves this procedure and retains the procedure information so you can enter the same procedure foradifferent patientCase/Procedure Logs GME:6 3 Page 4 of 22 Case/Procedure Logs GME:6 3 Page 5 of 22 Log Procedure on Mobile Web 1.Log in to mobile web 2.Tap Procedure Logger 3.Tap Status to verify your Status Type 4.Tap Patient Info to enter data about your patient 5.Tap Procedure to enter information that may include: •Location •Role •Procedure Group •Procedure •Supervisor 6.Tap OK 7.Tap Diagnosis (if required) 8.Tap Additional Information (if required) 9.Tap Comments 10.Tap SaveCase/Procedure Logs GME:6 3 Page 6 of 22 Council on Podiatric Medical Education (CPME) specific guidelines (See Attachment A) VI. REFERENCES: Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education, Institutional Requirements: Revision September 26, 2021; effective July 1, 2022 The Council on Podiatric Medical Education (CPME), CPME 330, Procedures for Approval of Podiatric Residencies: April 2022An Independent, Specialized Accrediting Agency 9312 Old Georgetown Road Bethesda, Maryland 20814 P 301.581.9200 I F 301.571.4903 www.cpme.org MEMORANDUM June 14, 2018 TO: Program Directors and Residents FROM: Council on Podiatric Medical Education SUBJECT: Proper Logging Guide During its March 9, 2018 meeting, members of the Council’s Residency Review Committee (RRC) reviewed the Guide to Proper Logging of Surgical Procedures and accepted recommended clarifications and revisions to the Guide, to be effective July 1, 2018. The surgical portion of the Guide resulted from an ongoing collaborative review by the Committee and the American Board of Foot and Ankle Surgery (ABFAS). The Guide was further revised to include guidelines related to the logging of biomechanical examinations and history and physical examinations. As such, the new document is titled Proper Logging Guide. Please note the following clarifications to the document: The new guidelines are effective July 1, 2018 to allow for updates to the CLAD report in Podiatry Residency Resource.All revisions, clarifications, and additions to the Guide are highlighted in yellow.New sections added include the following:oCategory 6 – Other Podiatric ProceduresoCategory 7 – Biomechanical ExaminationsoCategory 8 – History and Physical ExaminationsAll logged procedures, biomechanical examinations, and history and physical exams must comply with these guidelines beginning July 1, 2018. Attachment A:Proper Logging Guide –Revised June 2018 Page 1 Proper Logging Guide (Effective July 1, 2018) GENERAL GUIDELINES: 1) For the procedure codes listed below, the program director must review each entry to determine proper usage. The following surgical codes may only be used ifamore appropriate procedure does not exist. A full documentation in the “Procedure Note” is required to justify use.1.13 other osseous digital procedure not listed above 2.3.10 other first ray procedure not listed above 3.14 other soft tissue procedures not listed above (limited to the foot) 4.18 other osseous procedures not listed (distal to the tarsometatarsal joint) 5.1.9 other elective reconstructive rearfoot/ankle soft-tissue surgery not listed above 5.2.11 other elective reconstructive rearfoot/ankle osseous surgery not listed above 5.3.7 other non-elective reconstructive rearfoot/ankle soft tissue surgery not listed above 5.4.8 other non-elective reconstructive rearfoot/ankle osseous surgery not listed above 2)In cases whereasubchondroplasty procedure is performed as part of another procedure, only the index procedure must be logged. For example,atalar dome or distal tibial subchondroplasty may only be logged as: 5.2.1 Operative arthroscopy 5.2.7 open management of talar dome lesion (with or without osteotomy) or 5.2.8 ankle arthrotomy with removal of loose body or other osteochondral debridement. If subchondroplasty is performed in isolation, the appropriate logging mandates use of the following subcategories: 1.13 other osseous digital procedure not listed above 2.3.10 other first ray procedure not listed above 4.18 other osseous procedures not list (distal to the tarsometatarsal joint) 5.2.11 other elective reconstructive rearfoot/ankle osseous surgery not listed above 3)Laterality (left or right) must be selected for all surgical procedures in categories 1 through 5. 4) The “Procedure Notes” must always reflect additional procedures that were performed but not logged individually. 5) Procedures may not be fragmented or unbundled into individual component parts to allow more than one resident to claim first assist. 6)Any reference in this document to “midfoot” entails any osseous or soft tissue procedure that is performed proximal to but not including the tarsometatarsal/Lisfranc joint.Proper Logging Guide –Revised June 2018 Page 2 Category 1: Digital Surgery (lesser toe or hallux) A procedure performed at the PIPJ and DIPJ can only be logged once. Include both procedures in the procedure notes. vA resident may only log one category 1 procedure per toe (the Procedure Note mayreflect additional procedures performed) and no more than one resident may claim afirst assistant onasingle toe. vThe digit (toe) number must be documented for all digital surgical proce dures. 1.6 Phalangeal Osteotomy May not be used in conjunction with:2.1.1 bunionectomy (partial ostectomy/Silver procedure) – (use 2.1.3 bunionectomy with hallux osteotomy) 2.1.3 bunionectomy with phalangeal osteotomy 2.1.7 metatarsophalangeal joint (MPJ) fusion 2.1.8 MPJ implant (with phalangeal implantation) 2.2.1 cheilectomy 2.2.2 joint salvage with phalangeal osteotomy (Kessel-Bonney, enclavement) 2.2.6 MPJ fusion 2.2.7 MPJ implant (with phalangeal implantation) 2.3.4 amputation May be used as an “add on” in conjunction with:2.1.4 bunionectomy with distal first metatarsal osteotomy 2.1.5 bunionectomy with first metatarsal base or shaft osteotomy 2.1.6 bunionectomy with first metatarsocuneiform fusion 2.1.8 MPJ implant (when used,ametatarsal component implantation only) 2.1.9 MPJ arthroplasty 2.1.10 bunionectomy with double correction with osteotomy and/or arthrodesis 2.2.3 joint salvage with distal metatarsal osteotomy 2.2.4 joint salvage with first metatarsal shaft or base osteotomy 2.2.5 joint salvage with first metatarsocuneiform fusion 2.2.7 MPJ implant (when used,ametatarsal component implantation only) 2.2.8 MPJ arthroplasty 2.3.1 tendon transfer/lengthening/procedure 2.3.2 osteotomy (e.g., dorsiflexory) 2.3.3 metatarsocuneiform fusion (other than for hallux valgus or hallux limitus) 2.3.5 management of osseous tumor/neoplasm (with or without bone graft) 2.3.7 open management of fracture or MPJ dislocation 2.3.8 corticotomy/callus distraction 2.3.9 revision/repair of surgical outcome (e.g., non-union, hallux varus) 2.3.10 other first ray procedure not listed above (only as indicated) Proper Logging Guide –Revised June 2018 Page 3 1.8 Amputation May not be used in conjunction with:1.10 management of bone/joint infection 2.3.4 amputation 2.3.6 management of bone/joint infection (with or without bone graft) 3.8 incision and drainage of soft tissue 4.4 metatarsal head resection (single or multiple) 4.10 amputation (lesser ray, transmetatarsal amputation) 1.10 Management of Bone/joint Infection May not be used in conjunction with: 1.8 amputation (if done on the same digit) 3.8 incision and drainage of soft tissue infection (includes foot, ankle or leg) Category 2: First Ray Surgery In general: The soft tissue component of all First Ray Surgery repair is inclusive and is not separately claimed as an additional procedure for all subcategories. The use of 2.1.1 is limited to isolated soft tissue repair/partial ostectomy of the first MPJ when no other osteotomy or fusion procedure is completed on the first ray. A resident may only log one 2.2.1-2.3.10 procedure per foot and no more than one resident may claimafirst assistant procedure per foot.Hallux Valgus Surgery Osteotomy (Akin) of the proximal phalanx treatment, see above in Digital Surgery Use of suture and button construct as the primary method to repairabunion deformity should be logged as 2.1.1 2.1.10 can only be used when two separate osteotomies and/or arthrodesis are performed on the same first ray to correct the bunion deformity. EXAMPLE : A first tarsometatarsal arthrodesis andahead osteotomy on the same metatarsal should be logged as 2.1.10.Hallux Limitus Surgery All of these procedures shall be inclusive and count as one First Ray Surgery procedureProper Logging Guide –Revised June 2018 Page 4 Other First Ray Surgery 2.3.1 Tendon Transfer/lengthening Procedure This procedure shall be inclusive. The soft tissue component of all first ray surgery repair is inclusive and is not separately claimed as an additional procedure.2.3.4 Amputation May not be used in conjunction with:2.3.6 management of bone/joint infection (with or without bone graft) 3.8 incision and drainage of soft tissue infection (includes foot, ankle or leg) 2.3.5 Management of Osseous Tumor/neoplasm (with or without bone graft) May not be used for removal of simple bone cyst2.3.6 Management of Bone/joint Infection (with or without bone graft) May not be used in conjunction with:1.8 amputation (if the amputation involves the great toe) 2.3.4 amputation 3.8 incision and drainage of soft tissue infection (includes foot, ankle, or leg) 2.3.10 Other First Ray Procedures Not Listed Above When two separate procedures are performed on the same first ray to correct thebunion deformity, please use 2.1.10.EXAMPLE: A first tarsometatarsal arthrodesis andahead osteotomy on thesame metatarsal should be logged as 2.1.10. Category 3: Other Soft Tissue Foot Surgery: 3.1 Excision of Ossicle/sesamoid Can only be used if it is performed as an isolated primary procedureMay not be used in conjunction with First Ray Surgery or tendontransfer/augmentationMay not be used in conjunction with Other Osseous Foot SurgeryEXAMPLES: os peroneum, os tibiale externum, os vesalianumProper Logging Guide –Revised June 2018 Page 5 3.4 Plantar Fasciotomy May include open or endoscopic approachTOPAZ and PRP injection are logged as 6.14Includes localized lipectomy and associated soft tissue excisionIncludes plantar heel spur/exostosis resectionIncludes local nerve (i.e. Baxter’s nerve) release or ablationMay not be claimed as Reconstructive Rearfoot/Ankle Surgery May not be used in conjunction with: 3.9 plantar fasciectomy /Plantar fibroma resection 3.5 Lesser MPJ Capsulotendon Balancing Excludes percutaneous tenotomy/capsulotomyMay not be used in conjunction with:3.6 tendon repair, lengthening, or transfer involving the forefoot (including digital flexor digitorum longus transfer) 3.7 open management of dislocation (MPJ/tarsometarsal) 4.2 lesser MPJ arthroplasty 4.3 bunionectomy of the fifth metatarsal without osteotomy 4.5 lesser MPJ implant 4.6 central metatarsal osteotomy 4.7 bunionectomy of the fifth metatarsal with osteotomy 3.6 Tendon Repair, Lengthening, or Transfer Involving the Forefoot (including digital flexor digitorum longus transfer) May not be used in conjunction with 3.5 lesser MPJ capsulotendon balancing 3.7 open Management of dislocation (MPJ/tarsometarsal) 4.2 lesser MPJ arthroplasty May not be used if percutaneous3.7 Open Management of Dislocation (MPJ/tarsometatarsal) May be claimed as an additional procedure in conjunction with Digital Surgery. Includes plantar plate repairMay not be used if percutaneousMay not be used in conjunction with 3.5 lesser MPJ capsulotendon balancing 3.6 tendon repair, lengthening, or transfer involving the forefoot (including digital flexor digitorum longus transfer) 4.2 lesser MPJ arthroplasty Can be used with digital procedure and lesser metatarsal osteotomyProper Logging Guide –Revised June 2018 Page 6 3.8 Incision and Drainage/wide debridement of Soft Tissue Infection (includes foot, ankle, or leg) Full documentation in the “Procedure Note” to justify use of procedure 3.8 with another procedure is required. If an I&D performed atadifferent site as an amputation, can be logged separately.EXAMPLE: an I&D ofafirst interspace witha5th digit amputation If the I&D, amputation, and bone biopsy are all occurring at the same surgical site, only one of these procedures may be logged.May not be used in conjunction with:1.8 amputation 1.10 management of bone/joint infection 2.3.4 amputation 2.3.6 management of bone/joint infection (with or without bone graft) 3.17 decompression of compartment syndrome (includes foot or leg) 4.4 metatarsal head resection (single or multiple) 4.10 amputation (lesser ray, transmetatarsal amputation) 4.11 management of bone/joint infection distal to the tarsometatarsal joints (with or without bone graft) 5.4.6 management of bone/joint infection (with or without bone graft) 5.4.7 amputation proximal to the tarsometatarsal joints This is inclusive of distal plantar space infection and therefore may not be claimed as Reconstructive Rearfoot/Ankle Surgery3.9 Plantar Fasciectomy Includes localized lipectomy or soft tissue excisions and includes the heel spur(exostectomy) resectionMay not be claimed as Reconstructive Rearfoot/Ankle SurgeryTOPAZ and PRP injection are logged as 6.14 May not be used in conjunction with: 3.4 plantar fasciotomy 3.10 Excision of Soft Tissue tumor/mass (without reconstructive surgery; includes foot, ankle, or leg) EXAMPLES: Excision ofaganglion cyst in the foot, sinus tarsi decompressionExcision of verrucae or other skin lesion is excluded (use 6.2)Proper Logging Guide –Revised June 2018 Page 7 3.12 Plastic Surgery Techniques (including skin graft, skin plasty, flaps, syndactylization, desyndactylization, and debulking procedures limited to the forefoot) Excludes synthetic/Biologic grafts (use 6.7)Excludes elliptical or wedge excisionsFull documentation in the Procedure Note to justify the extent of 3.12 is requiredThe harvesting and application of skin graft/flap count as one procedureMay be used in conjunction with Digital Surgery and in conjunction with 3.5(lesser MPJ capsulotendon balancing), when extensive, such as to correct severedigital deformities, i.e. Muir-Ruiz3.13 Microscopic Nerve/vascular Repair (forefoot only) Requires the use of microscopic equipment3.14 Other Soft Tissue Procedures Not Listed Above (limited to the foot) Harvesting of split thickness skin grafts (STSG) from any source (i.e., foot,ankle, leg, or thigh) and application of the graft to the foot or ankle should belogged as 3.12, 5.1.1 or 5.3.43.16 External Neurolysis/decompression (including tarsal tunnel) Multiple nerve decompressions of the same extremity are logged as oneprocedure Category 4: Other Osseous Foot Surgery: One procedure per metatarsal. Exceptions are noted below.4.1 Partial Ostectomy (includes foot, ankle, or leg) May include calcaneal ostectomies, i.e. simple Haglund’s excision,retrocalcaneal exostectomy and resection of os trigonum (see 4.19 below)May not be used in conjunction with:3.4 plantar fasciotomy if associated with plantar calcaneal exostosis (see 3.4 above) 3.9 plantar fasciectomy if associated with plantar calcaneal exostosis (see 3.9 above) 4.2 lesser MPJ arthroplasty, if associated with the same metatarsal 4.3 bunionectomy of the fifth metatarsal without osteotomy, if associated with the same metatarsal 4.5 lesser MPJ implant, if associated with the same metatarsal 4.6 central metatarsal osteotomy, if associated with the same metatarsal 4.7 bunionectomy of the fifth metatarsal with osteotomy, if associated with the same metatarsal Proper Logging Guide –Revised June 2018 Page 8 4.2 Lesser MPJ Arthroplasty May not be used in conjunction with: 3.5 lesser MPJ capsulotendon balancing 3.6 tendon repair, lengthening, or transfer involving the forefoot 3.7 open management of dislocation (MPJ/tasometarsal 4.1 partial ostectomy (includes foot, ankle or leg) 4.3 bunionectomy of the fifth metatarsal without osteotomy 4.4 metatarsal head resection (single or multiple) 4.5 lesser MPJ implant 4.6 central metatarsal osteotomy 4.7 bunionectomy of the fifth metatarsal with osteotomy 4.4 Metatarsal Head Resection (single or multiple) single, multiple, or adjoining metatarsal head resections are considered as one procedure non-adjoining metatarsal head resections can be counted as two procedures with procedure note documentation. EXAMPLE: 1st and 5th metatarsal head resection adjoining metatarsal head resections are considered as one procedure 4.6 Central Metatarsal Osteotomy May be used in conjunction with 3.7, plantar plate repair, if performed at the same location4.8 Open Management of Lesser Metatarsal Fracture(s) Repair of multiple metatarsal fractures is logged as individual procedures4.10 Amputation (lesser ray, transmetatarsal amputation) Transmetatarsal amputation is considered as one procedure Amputation of adjoining metatarsals or rays are considered one procedure Non-adjoining metatarsal ray amputations can be counted as two procedures EXAMPLE, 1st and 5th ray amputations Lesser ray amputation includes the amputation of the toe(s) and metatarsal(s)segment(s)Includes the incision and drainageProper Logging Guide –Revised June 2018 Page 9 4.11 Management of Bone/joint Infection Distal to the Tarsometatarsal Joints (with or without bone graft) Full documentation in the “Procedure Note” to justify use of procedure 4.11 with another procedure is required.4.13 Open Management of Tarsometatarsal Fracture/dislocation Claimed as one procedure for repair of the metatarsal cuneiform and cuboidjoints. Also inclusive of the first metatarsal cuneiform joint4.14 Multiple Metatarsal Osteotomy Management of Metatarsus Adductus One procedure for the correction of metatarsus adductus (independent of thenumber of osteotomies performed)4.15 Tarsometatarsal Fusion Fusion of the tarsometatarsal joints (complete or partial) is one procedure This code is to be used in cases of Lisfranc joint ORIF or osteoarthritis This code is not to be used for bunion correction (use 2.1.6 or 2.2.6 or 2.3.3)4.17 Revision/repair of Surgical Outcome in the Forefoot Full documentation in the “Procedure Note” to justify use of procedure 4.17 with another procedure is required.4.19 Detachment/reattachment of Achilles Tendon with Partial Ostectomy May not be used in conjunction with:4.1 partial ostectomy (includes foot, ankle or leg) 5.3.1 repair of acute tendon injury Category 5: Reconstructive Rearfoot/Ankle Surgery: vAny reference in this document to “midfoot” entails any osseous or soft tissue procedure that is performed proximal to, but not including the tarsometatarsal/Lisfranc joint.vThe rule of thumb to follow when logging ankle procedures is, “an ankle is an ankle.”This means that all procedures performed withinasingle case must be logged as asingle procedure, even if one could log multiple procedures if they were performed atdifferent times. Exceptions are noted below.Proper Logging Guide –Revised June 2018 Page 10 Elective – Soft tissue: 5.1.1 Plastic Surgery Techniques Involving the Midfoot, Rearfoot, or Ankle May not include skin plasty repair that utilizes just ellipses/wedges.Documentation of details in the procedure note is required.The harvesting and application of skin graft/flap count as one procedure. 5.1.2 Tendon Transfer Involving the Midfoot, Rearfoot, Ankle, or Leg Any tendon transfer except plantaris with an Achilles tendon repair is acceptable(logged as two procedures)May not be used in conjunction with: 5.1.4 soft tissue repair of complex congenital foot/ankle deformity (clubfoot, vertical talus) See 5.1.5 Does not include digital tendon transfers i.e., FDL, Hibbs procedure etc.5.1.3 Tendon Lengthening Involving the Midfoot, Rearfoot, Ankle, or Leg May include percutaneous or “stab” type lengthening (e.g., percutaneous tendonAchilles lengthening)Does not include digital tendon transfers i.e., FDL, Hibbs procedure etc.5.1.5 Primary or Secondary Repair of Ligamentous Structures May be used in conjunction with:5.1.2 tendon transfer involving the midfoot, rearfoot, ankle or leg5.1.6 ligament or tendon augmentation/supplementation/restoration5.1.6 Tendon Augmentation/supplementation/restoration Includes excision of an ossicle or ostectomyEXAMPLE: Os peroneum withaperoneal tendon repair and Os tibiale Externum withakidner Repair of both peroneal tendons at the same time is counted as one procedureMay not be used in conjunction with:5.1.2 tendon transfer involving the midfoot, rearfoot, ankle or legDoes not include digital tendon transfers i.e., FDL, Hibbs procedure etc. (see 3.6above)5.1.7 Open Synovectomy of the Rearfoot/ankle May not be used in conjunction with:5.2.1 operative arthroscopy5.2.7 open management of talar dome lesion (with or without osteotomy)Proper Logging Guide –Revised June 2018 Page 11 5.2.8 ankle arthrotomy with removal of loose body or other osteochondral debridement Elective – Osseous: 5.2.1 Operative Arthroscopy Cannot be separately counted when converted into an open ankle procedureCan be logged withalateral ankle stabilization as long as the lateral anklestabilization was not performed through the scopeMay not be claimed asadiagnostic arthroscopy or if the arthroscopy resul ts in an “open” procedure.May not be claimed in conjunction with:5.1.7 open synovectomy of the rearfoot/ankle 5.2.7 open management of talar dome lesion (with or without osteotomy) 5.2.8 ankle arthrotomy with removal of loose body or other osteochondral debridement 5.2.11 other elective reconstructive rearfoot/ankle osseous surgery not listed above (i.e.subchondroplasty) 5.2.4 Midfoot, Rearfoot, or Ankle Fusion multiple procedures count as one procedure Midfoot” entails any osseous or soft tissue procedure that is performed proximal to, but not including the tarsometatarsal/Lisfranc joint.EXAMPLES: double arthrodesis, triple arthrodesis, pan talar arthrodesis,talonavicular withacalcaneocuboid arthrodesis are all logged as one procedure5.2.5 Midfoot, Rearfoot or Tibial Osteotomy Midfoot” entails any osseous or soft tissue procedure that is pe rformed proximal to, but not including the tarsometatarsal/Lisfranc joint.May not be claimed in conjunction with the following procedures if theosteotomy was performed to access pathology:5.2.4 midfoot, rearfoot or ankle fusion5.2.7 open management of talar dome lesion (with or without osteotomy)5.2.9 ankle implant NOTE: 5.2.5 can be claimed in conjunction with 5.2.4, 5.2.7 and 5.2.9 when an osteotomy was done to correct RRA deformity. May be used if two separate osteotomies are performed to correctadeformity i.e. Evans and Cotton or Evans and medial sliding calcaneal osteotomy.Proper Logging Guide –Revised June 2018 Page 12 5.2.6 Coalition Resection Can not be used if it is done as part of an arthrodesis or arthroeresis procedure May not be claimed in conjunction with: 5.2.3 subtalar arthroeresis 5.2.4 midfoot, rearfoot, or ankle fusion 5.2.5 midfoot, rearfoot, or tibial osteotomy May be claimed when an osteotomy was done to correct RRA deformity5.2.7 Open Management of Talar Dome Lesions (with or without osteotomy) Includes associated: 5.2.1 operative arthroscopy (does not include STJ arthroscopy) May not be used in conjunction with 5.2.4 midfoot, rearfoot, or ankle fusion (may be used other than with ankle fusion) 5.2.5 malleolar osteotomy 5.2.8 ankle arthrotomy 5.2.11 other elective reconstructive rearfoot/ankle osseous surgery not listed above (i.e. subchondroplasty) 5.2.8 Ankle Arthrotomy with Removal of Loose Body or Other Osteochondral Debridement Includes: 5.2.1 operative arthroscopy (does not include STJ arthroscopy) May not be used in conjunction with 5.2.4 midfoot, rearfoot, or ankle fusion (may be used other than with ankle fusion) 5.2.5 malleolar osteotomy 5.2.11 other elective reconstructive rearfoot/ankle osseous surgery not listed above (i.e.subchondroplasty) Non-Elective – Soft Tissue: 5.3.2 Repair of Acute Ligament Injury May not be used in conjunction with fracture repair 5.3.6 open repair of dislocation (proximal to tarsometatarsal joints) 5.4.1 open repair of adult midfoot fracture 5.4.2 open repair of adult rearfoot fracture 5.4.3 open repair of adult ankle fracture 5.4.4 open repair of pediatric rearfoot/ankle fractures or dislocations Claim only one procedure per foot/ankleProper Logging Guide –Revised June 2018 Page 13 5.3.4 Excision of Soft Tissue Tumor/mass of the Foot, Ankle or Leg (with reconstructive surgery) The harvesting and application of related skin graft/flap count as one procedure 5.3.6 Open Repair of Dislocation (proximal to the tarsometatarsal joints) May not be used in conjunction with fracture repair 5.4.1 open repair of adult midfoot fracture 5.4.2 open repair of adult rearfoot fracture 5.4.3 open repair of adult ankle fracture 5.4.4 open repair of pediatric rearfoot/ankle fractures or dislocationsMay not be used in conjunction with 5.3.2 repair of acute ligament injury Claim only one procedure per foot/ankleNon-Elective – Osseous: 5.4.1 Open Repair of Adult Midfoot Fracture Claim only one procedure per foot5.4.2 Open Repair of Adult Rearfoot Fracture Claim only one procedure per foot5.4.3 Open Repair of adult Ankle Fracture Repair of ligaments is included in the repair Repair of syndesmosis is included in the repair Uni/Bi/Tri malleolar fracture repairs are considered one procedureClaim only one procedure per ankle5.4.4 Open Repair of Pediatric Rearfoot/ankle Fracture or Dislocation Claim only one procedure per foot/ankle 5.4.9 Application of Multiplanar External Fixation Midfoot, Rearfoot, and Ankle Does not include application ofamonorail, mini-rail, or purely static frame To be used for cases requiring deformity correction or manipulation May not be used with 4.8, 4.13, 5.4.1, 5.4.2, 5.4.3, and 5.4.4Proper Logging Guide –Revised June 2018 Page 14 Additional Guidelines Although notasurgical category, the RRC determined the following related to Category 6: Other Podiatric Procedures (these procedures cannot be counted toward the minimum procedure requirements): ForaPMSR, 150 of the 300 podiatric surgical cases may come from procedureslogged in category 6 (6.1-6.8 only); the remainder must come from categories 1-5.ForaPMSR/RRA, the 300 podiatric surgical cases may come only fromcategories 1-5. Category 6: Other Podiatric Procedures vThese procedures cannot be counted toward the minimum procedure requirements, but willallow residents to have these procedures in their logs for possible future referencevSurgical cases performed outside of the United States may be logged as category 6, otherprocedures (6.13).6.1 Debridement of superficial ulceration or wound by any means in the operating room or clinic. May not be used in conjunction with I&D, metatarsal head resection, or bone biopsy (see 3.8) unless performed atadifferent site 6.2 Excision or destruction of skin lesion (i.e. verruca) by any means. Includes biopsy of skin lesion. 6.4 Matrixectomy (partial or complete, by any means). Use this for procedures performed in the clinic or operating room. 6.5 Removal of hardware. Includes External Fixation removal. 6.7 Application ofabiologic dressing, i.e., Integra, Epifix, Theraskin, etc. in the operating room or clinic. Includes debridement of wound. 6.13 Other clinical experiences (i.e. application ofastatic external fixation frame or closed reduction of fracture/dislocation). 6.14 percutaneous procedures (i.e., coblation, cryosurgery, radiofrequency ablation, platelet- rich plasma). Proper Logging Guide –Revised June 2018 Page 15 Category 7: Biomechanical Examinations A biomechanical case is identified as procedure code 7. 1 vBiomechanical case must include diagnosis, evaluation (biomechanical and gaitexamination), and treatment.Demonstrates understanding of pathomechanics of biomechanical conditionMay include variety of pathology requiring various treatment options (conservative,surgical)vA biomechanical exam includes static and dynamic exam of the area of chief complaint.vThe biomechanical exam and gait analysis must be comprehensive relative to thediagnosis and consistent with the clinical findings.vPatient encounters such as taping and padding, orthotics, prosthetics, and otherbiomechanical experiences that do not includeabiomechanical examination and gaitanalysis are not counted as biomechanical cases.vGait analysis may range from basic visual gait analysis to complex computerized gaitanalysis. An interpretation of the gait analysis must be documented.vTreatment plans must be justified and supported by findings of the biomechanical exam. Category 8: History and Physical Examinations Admission, preoperative, and outpatient medical H&Ps, performed mostly with MD and DO faculty, may be used as acceptable forms ofacomprehensive H&P. Some comprehensive H&Ps with DPM faculty are acceptable. A focused history and physical examination does not fulfill this requirement. 8.1 Comprehensive History and Physical Examination: Comprehensive medical history: Past medical history, past surgery history,family history, social history, medications, allergies, and review of systemsVital signsPhysical exam: Head, Eyes, Ears, Nose, Throat, Neck, Chest/breast, Lungs,Abdomen, GU, rectal, upper extremity, and neurologicalPerformed with MDs and Dos, and some DPMs.8.2 Problem-Focused History and Physical Examination: Problem-focused historyProblem focused exam: vascular, dermatological, neurological, and musculoskeletal examBiomechanical examinationGait analysis.POLICY & PROCEDURE SUBJECT: Anti-Harassment and Non - Discrimination HR.05 *IHN* DEPT: HUMAN RESOURCES Page 1 of 4 EFFECTIVE Date: 11/01/2010 REVIEW Date: 11/30/2022 I. POLICY Inspira Health is committed to providingaworking environment that is free from harassment or discrimination. We believe that all employees deserve to be treated fairly and with respect, and we willnot tolerate any occurrence of harassment or discrimination. Inspira expects all of its employees to treat each other with the utmost respect and courtesy at all times. All forms of harassment or discrimination, whether verbal, physical, or visual, const itute employee misconduct and are prohibited. Actions, words, jokes, or comments based on an individual's gender, race, ethnicity, age, religion, or any other legally protected characteristic will not be tolerated. Any employee who is determined, afteran investigation, to have engaged in harassment or discrimination will be subject to disciplinary and/or corrective action, up to and including termination. I. RESPONSIBILITY This policy applies to all employees of Inspira Health. To that end, we expect eachemployee to do his or her part to maintainawork environment free of harassment and discrimination by exhibiting sound judgment and respect for the feelings and sensitivities of others. Each member of leadership is responsible for creating and ensuring an atmosphere free of harassment and discrimination of any kind in the workplace. They must also ensure that all personnel under their supervision understand and follow this policy. II. PROCEDURE Definition of Harassment and Discrimination Workplace harassment and discrimination can take many forms. It may be, but is not limited to, the following: words, signs, offensive jokes, cartoons, pictures,e-mail jokes or statements, pranks, intimidation, physical assaults or contact, or violence. Harassment is not necessarily sexual in nature. It may also take the form of other vocal activity including derogatory statements not directed to the targeted individual but taking place within their hearing. This is the case even if the offending employ ee did not mean to be offensive. Other prohibited conduct includes written material such as notes, photographs, cartoons, articles ofaharassing or offensive nature, and taking retaliatory action against an employee for discussing or makingaharassment complaint. Offensive verbal, physical, or visual activity rises to the level of harassment when it is either, or both, sufficiently pervasive or severe enough to reasonably interfere with an employee’s job performance or to create an intimidating, hosti le, or offensive working environment. Depending on the nature of the conduct and/or the circumstances surrounding the conduct, harassment may be based onasingle incident, an aggregate of multiple incidents, orapattern or practice of behavior on the pa rt of one or more individuals. POLICY & PROCEDURE SUBJECT: Anti-Harassment and Non - Discrimination HR.05 *IHN* DEPT: HUMAN RESOURCES Page 2 of 4 EFFECTIVE Date: 11/01/2010 REVIEW Date: 11/30/2022 Discrimination can also take the form of an employee being treated differently and worse than another employee based onacharacteristic such as sex, age, disability, race, etc. Definition of Sexual Harassment Some examplesof types of behavior that are considered sexual harassment in violation of this policy include, but are not limited to: Sexually offensive jokes or comments; Physical assault or physical conduct that is sexual in nature; Unwelcome sexual advances orcomments, or requests for sex or sexual activities linked to one’s employment or advancement, regardless of whether they are based on promises or threats; Sexual displays or publications, such as calendars, cartoons, or graffiti; Other verbal or physical conduct ofasexual nature which has the purpose or effect of interfering with an individual’s work performance or creating an intimidating, hostile, or offensive work environment; Punishing or retaliating against an employee for complaints of sexual hara ssment. Sexual propositions; Sexual innuendo; Sexually suggestive comments; Sexually -oriented “kidding,” “teasing,” or “practical jokes”; Non physical or verbal activity such as: staring, gawking, body language; Jokes about gender -specific traits; Foul or obscene language or gestures; Displays of foul or obscene printed or visual material; Physical contact, such as patting, pinching, or brushing against another’s body; Reading or otherwise publicizing in the work environment materials that are sexuallyPOLICY & PROCEDURE SUBJECT: Anti-Harassment and Non - Discrimination HR.05 *IHN* DEPT: HUMAN RESOURCES Page 3 of 4 EFFECTIVE Date: 11/01/2010 REVIEW Date: 11/30/2022 suggestive or revealing. This includes signs, cartoons, pictures, posters, articles, E-mail jokes, or other electronic materials, pictures, or stateme nts. Non sexual but offensive conduct aimed ataspecific gender. Other types of Harassment and/or Discrimination Harassment based on other protected class traits also is strictly prohibited. These traits include age, race, color, religion, nationaloriginal, gender, ancestry, disability, and/or sexual orientation. Harassment may also include retaliation or harassment against an employee who has reportedaworkplace injury, an unsafe condition,aviolation of law, or who is protected under New Jersey’s whistleblower law. Some examples of the types of behavior that will be considered harassment, in addition to the examples stated previously, include: Jokes or negative comments about these characteristics; Displays of reading materials or pictures cont aining negative material about these characteristics, including electronic materials; Vandalism or “pranks” based on these characteristics; Name -calling based on these characteristics; Punishing or retaliating against an employee for complaining of harassment based upon these characteristics. Responsibility to Report Any employee who believes that he or she has been subjected to harassment or discrimination should report the alleged conduct immediately toaHuman Resources employee for his or her campus. Even if you witnessed or only heard about acts that could be seen as possible discrimination or harassment, you owe it to yourself and others to report this conduct to INSPIRA HEALTH. We cannot investigate alleged harassment or discrimination unless we know about it. All information disclosed in the procedure will be held in confidence to the extent practicable and will only be disclosed to the extent needed to investigate and resolve the matter. Any incident of possible harassment or discrimination should immediately (preferably within 48 hours) be reported toaHuman Resources staff member. IfaSupervisor or Manager receivesareport of harassment or discrimination, or observes or hears about conduct that could be seen as possible harassment or discrimination, they must report the incident to Human Resources as soon as possible. POLICY & PROCEDURE SUBJECT: Anti-Harassment and Non - Discrimination HR.05 *IHN* DEPT: HUMAN RESOURCES Page 4 of 4 EFFECTIVE Date: 11/01/2010 REVIEW Date: 11/30/2022 Resolution of Complaints After investigating the matter,adetermination will be made co ncerning whether reasonable grounds exist to believe that harassment or discrimination has occurred. Corrective action will be taken promptly upon the conclusion of the investigation when appropriate. Disciplinary action, up to and including discharge,will be taken against any employee who is found to have engaged in harassment or discrimination. An employee should never be fearful of makingareport of harassment or discrimination as this is the only way we can address the problem. Any employee maki ngareport of harassment or discrimination should do so without fear of reprisal. If an employee believes that they are being retaliated against for reporting conduct under this policy, he or she should report such conduct to Human Resources as set forthabove. An employee should not wait until behavior reaches the level where it is interfering with his/her work performance or creating an intimidating, hostile, or offensive working environment in order to complain. Employees who feel that someone's wo rkplace behavior is negatively affecting them in any way must bring it to the attention of Human Resources. This will allow appropriate prompt, corrective action to be taken where necessary to prevent the behavior from becoming harassment. Retaliation Pro hibited Regardless of the complaint or the outcome of an investigation, it isaviolation of this policy to retaliate against anyone who has madeacomplaint of harassment/ discrimination or has cooperated in an investigation. Disciplinary action, up toand including discharge, will be taken against any employee who is found to have engaged in retaliatory conduct. If an employee believes that they are being retaliated against for reporting conduct under this policy, he or she should report such conduct to Human Resources as set forth above. Intelligent Observation (IO) Electronic Hand Hygiene Monitoring System TIP SHEET How it Works: •IO Smart badge reels communicate with sensors located above door ways and soap and hand sanitizer dispensers to collect Hand Hygiene Compliance. •Hand Hygiene Compliance (if you washed your hands or not) is tied to the Inspira policy of Hand Hygiene being performed on entry and exit of patient rooms. If you did not enter or exitaroom within 20 seconds, your hand hygiene will not be captured. •IO Smart badge reels are NOTaGPS and will not be used to ‘track’ an employee’s movements for punitive purposes. To ensure hand hygiene is captured as compliant with IO: •Hand Hygiene with either soap and water OR alcohol -based hand sanitizer must be performed within 20 seconds (before or after) of entry or exit ofapatient room. •When using soap and water to washhands, you must wash hands with your body remaining within 18 inches of the sink for at least 20 seconds to be counted as compliant, which is the CDC recommended time for an effective hand wash. •When using the alcohol -based hand sanitizer, you must remain present within 30 inches of the dispenser for 0.5 seconds (half ofasecond ), which is the duration of time to dispense the recommended amount of product onto your hands. You may walk away to rub your hands. Best Practices for Wearing I O Smart Badge Reels: •Use IO Smart badge reel to hold your Inspira issued ID badge, RLTS tag and other badge buddies. •Wear ID badge with IO Smart badge reel at chest level to ensure proper data collection. Questions? Reach out to our on -site Account Manager, Steven Nolte. Steven.nolte@intelobserve.comWhat happens if hand washing is not performed when it should be: •The data is collected and will be sent to leaders in push reports to share for educational and improvement purposes. •In the future, we may elect to turn on an audible tone asareminder for missed hand hygiene opportunities. For now, we want to collect baseline data that will serve asafoundation for future improvement initiatives. Important Information: •The sensors have intermittent LED lights with different meanings for Acco unt Support’s use. Ignore these LEDs, as they do NOT indicate proper capture or function. •This system is designed to capture EVERY entry and exit, regardless of patient census, medical emergencies, etc. The goal is not to take away from patient care striving for 100% compliance, but rather to capture our baseline compliance, and strive to improve 1% every day forward. Lost or Broken Tag: •Notifyyour manager immediately, who will reach out to our IO Account Manager to obtainareplacement. If leavingaqualifying position or terminating employment with Inspira: •Place your name onapost -it note and wrap it around the badge reel witharubber band. •Surrender the tag to the Human Resources Dept. IO Smart badge reels are hospital property : •Store securely when not in use. •Return to the Human Resources Dept. if one is found. For questions or troubleshooting, call the IS Support Center at 856 -575-4700. TIP SHEET Expense Delegation Accessing the Expense module As of April 2022, identified frequent travelers for work purposes will be able to submit for reimbursement in the Expense module. Please click here and refer to the Creating Expense Reports Video – Introducing the Expense Work Area or OGL Step Guide for accessing the Expense module and creating expense items. If you areafrequent traveler and/or submitter of other expense reimbursements and would like to apply for utilization of this module, please submit an IS ticket addressed to the Lawson/Oracle team. User licenses are limited. For those who do not have access, please continue to utilize the forms we have used prior to Oracle by clicking here and e-mail forms to accountspayable@ihn.org. Delega�ng Report Submissions The employee designatingadelegate for this responsibility MUST complete the below process for another employee to submit expense reports on their behalf. This isaone-time set up that will give that delegate employee the ability to submit all expense reports moving forward. Once on the main screen for Travel and Expenses, you will noticeagear icon to right of the search bar at the top right side of the screen. Click on that icon foradropdown menu, then select Manage Delegates. Delegates and Permissions On this screen, select the plus iconfor Add andasearch Person bar will appear. Clicking on the magnifying glass icon will bring upasearch menu. The best setting for finding the employee to delegate is by clicking the Any option and then typing in their first and last name. This is case sensitive, so both the first and last name must start withacapital letter. If unsure of the spelling of the delegate’s last name, you can type in the first letter of the last name, but that also must be capitalized i.e. John S If you know their Email, that option is available as well and is also case sensitive i.e. SmithJ@ihn.org Ifaname is not in the search list, they do not have an Expense User license. Please reach out to that employee for submitting an IS request form requesting access. For questions or troubleshooting, call the IS Support Center at 856 -575-4700. TIP SHEET Expense Delegation Click on the delegate’s name at the bottom of this search screen, then select OK. If you now see the delegate’s name in the search bar, you are okay to either click on Save (will then show employee’s contact information and job code/position) or Save and Close, depending on whether you would like to add additional delegates. Delegate Submissions When the delegate has been activated, they can go to the Travel and Expenses home screen. At the top, they will seeadropdown list for selecting an “Owner”. This will allow the delegate to select all employees for which they’ve been designated asadelegate. There currently is no notification or e-mail that will show whenadelegate has become active, so the employee designating the delegate will need to notify the delegate when they’ve been activated. W hen the delegate is in the designator’s expense report creation, there will beamessage that pops up to confirm. Contact Info If you have any questions regarding documents required as support for reimbursement, please contact our Accounts Payable Manager Christine Charlesworth at charlesworthc@ihn.org ext. 54761 or (856) 575-4761. AAMC - Association of American Medical Colleges ABMS - American Board of Medical Specialties ACCME - Accreditation Council for Continuing Medical Education ACGME- Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education ADS (WebADS) - Accreditation Data System AHA - American Hospital Association AMA - American Medical Association AMA -CME American Medical Association – Council on Medical Education AOA - American Osteopathic Association CAAR - Computer Assisted Accreditation Review CCC - Clinical Competency Committee CBE - Competency-Based Education CLER - Clinical Learning Environment Review CMO-Chief Medical Officer CMS - Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services CMSS - Council of Medical Specialty Societies COMLEX - Comprehensive Osteopathic Medical Licensing Examination of the United States CPME - Council on Podiatric Medical Education CRCC - Council of Review Committee Chairs CRCR - Council of Review Committee Residents DIO - Designated Institutional Official ECFMG - Educational Commission for Foreign Medical Graduates ERAS - Electronic Residency Application Service FREIDA - Fellowship and Residency Interactive Database (AMA) FS- Accreditation Field Staff FSMB - Federation of State Medical Boards GME - Graduate Medical Education HIPAA - Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act IRC - Institutional Review Committee IRD - Institutional Review Document JC - Joint Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations LCME - Liaison Committee on Medical Education LON - Letter of Notification NBME - National Board of Medical Examiners OGME - Osteopathic Graduate Medical Education OPTI - Osteopathic Postgraduate Training Institute PD - Program director PGY- Post Graduate Year PLA - Program Letter of Agreement (for residency and fellowship program) NRMP - National Resident Matching Program RC - Review Committee RRC - Residency Review Committee SV- Site Visitor SSV- Specialist Site Visitor TYRC - Transitional Year Review Committee USMLE - United States Medical Licensing Examination COMMON ACRONYMS/ABBREVIATIONS USED IN GRADUATE MEDICAL EDUCATION Emergency Codes Emergency Number 77777Poison Control 1-800-POISON1 1-800-764-7661Patient / Visitor Safety Incident Hotline 1-888-310-255 Code When to Use Code RED Fire (listen for location and stage ) Code BLUE Adult Medical Emergency – If you need help for an adult and it is medical in nature Code WHITE Pediatric Medical Emergency – If you need help forachild and it is medical in nature Code AMBER Infant/Child Abduction – Man all exits until code cleared – no one leaves the building or comesin until cleared Code YELLOW Bomb Threat Code ASSIST with Location Assistance withapatient Code GRAY–Exit Block Patient Elopement – When leaving posesadanger for the patient; man all exits until patient found Code GRAY–Security with Location Security for Unruly Situation. Code SILVER Hostage or Weapon situation Code ORANGE Hazardous Material Incident (Use for spill greater thanaquart) Code TRIAGE Disaster – Internal or External Code Magenta (Elmer Only) Radiologic Exposure Code CVA (IMC Only) Stroke Team Needs to Be M obilized Code CLEAR Code Situation Is Clear (resolved) In Case of Fire Extinguisher Use R = Rescue P = Pull A = Alarm A = Aim C = Contain S = Squeeze E = Extinguish S = Sweep FAX NUMBERS MULLICA HILL HOSPITAL DEPARTMENTS Acute Care Registration 856-221-4155 Nurse Station 1 856-221-4159 Respiratory 856-221-4181 Nurse Station 2 856-221-4160 Security - Control Room 856-221-4156 Teamwork Area 856-221-4161 Step Down Administration - Assistants 856-221-4142 Nurse Station 1 856-221-4165 Behavioral Health ED - Team Center 856-221-4185 Nurse Station 2 856-221-4163 Care Coordination 856-221-4143 Teamwork Area 1 856-221-4164 Central Monitoring 856-221-4194 Teamwork Area 2 856-221-4162 Central Sterile Structural Heart 856-221-4183 Materials Manager 856-221-4192 Surgery Central Sterile - Prep -Pack 856-221-4193 Control Center 856-221-4189 Dialysis - Nurse Station 856-221-4168 Dictation Area 1 856-221-4190 Emergency Department Dictation Area 2 856-221-4191 Workroom Area 856-221-4178 Team Center 1 856-221-4151 Workstation Area 856-221-4177 Team Center 2 856-221-4186 Education 856-221-4184 Team Center 3 856-221-4187 Employee Health 856-221-4140 Team Center 4 856-221-4188 Environmental Services 856-221-4176 Volunteer Services 856-221-4158 Facilities 856-221-4182 Team Center 2 856-221-4186 Health Information Management 856-221-4180 Team Center 3 856-221-4187 Intensive Care Unit Teamwork 1 856-221-4169 Teamwork 2 856-221-4170 Imaging Clerical Work Room 856-221-4174 Control 856-221-4172 Passage 856-221-4173 Supervisors 856-221-4175 Team Station 856-221-4141 Infection Control 856-221-4148 Laboratory AC-SO 856-221-4147 Admin 856-221-4146 Blood Bank 856-221-4145 Maternity 856-221-4150 Medical Staff Hospitalist 856-221-4157 Workroom Area 856-221-4144 Mother Child 856-221-4149 Observation Nurse Station 1 856-221-4166 Teamwork Area 1 856-221-4167 Pediatric ED 856-221-4179 Pharmacy Coordinator 856-221-4154 Med Dispensing 856-221-4153 Storage 856-221-4152 Quality MULLICA HILL EXTENSIONS Inspira Health Medical Center – Elmer Indoor Hospital Navigation Points of Interest Directory 1 Kay Via 2/20/2020 kvia@intraprisehealth.com Every Inspira Health Employee who has access to InspiraNet can WOW our patients and guests by introducing them to our Indoor Hospital Navigation system! Eyedog Ind oor wayfinding is based on photo landmarks. Backed by scientific research, Eyedog is more effective, easier to use, and less cognitively demanding than map -based solutions. Directions in the form of visual pathways can be made available to all visitors without downloading an app and with no need for constant Internet, WiFi, or Bluetooth connectivity. This directory will help Inspira employees to become familiar with the Points of Interest (POI) names to assist our patients and visitors to find their wayaround. All Inspira employees can access the Eyedog application quickly and easily from InspiraNet > Directoriesand clicking on the Indoor Hospital Navigation link. Click on the hospital image and the application opens. Next, simply  Selectastart point  Select an end point And then :  Pointasmartphone camera at the QR Code displayedon the monitor, tap the notification and the route generated transfers to the smartphone. (iOS and newer Android models supported). OR  An email options is also availabl e. Click on the email icon. A prepopulated email opens, enter the recipients email address, and click send. This feature can be used in person or duringaphone conversation withapatient or guest to help deliveraphoto route any time. This document is for INTERNAL USE only and not to be shared with patients or visitors. ID (Internal Use Only) Campus Location Level Point of Interest **** All Areas All Floors Restrooms (WhenaRestroom is selected asadestination distance is displayed to determine nearest to start location selected.) 6306 Emergency Department 1st Floor Emergency Patient Beds #1 -16 6249 Emergency Department 1st Floor Emergency Room Check -in 6251 Emergency Department 1st Floor Emergency Room Entrance 6247 Emergency Department 1st Floor Emergency Room Waiting 6250 Emergency Department 1st Floor Security 6234 Emergency Department 1st Floor Vending Machines near ER Waiting 6233 Emergency Department 1st Floor Vendor Check -in Kiosk, Rep Trax Sign In 6219 Hospital 1st Floor ATM, Vending Machines near Main Lobby 6229 Hospital 1st Floor Balance Center, EMG 6266 Hospital 1st Floor Cafeteria 6237 Hospital 1st Floor Cardiac Pulmonary Rehabilitation, Nuclear Cardiology, Cardiac Stress Testing, Routine Stress Testing, Stress ECHO, Tilt Table Test, Echocardiograms, ECHO, Bubble Study, Pulmonary Function, Complete PFT, ECG, EKG, Holter Monitoring, Heart Testing, ABG, Pulse Oximetry, Cardiac Pulmonary Rehab Check - in, Cardiopulmonary, 6 Minute Walk Testing, Balance Testing, Respiratory Testing, Breathing Test, Lung Testing, Brain Testing, Neuro Testing, Seizure Testing 6261 Hospital 1st Floor Classroom B 6268 Hospital 1st Floor Clinical Dietician Office 2 Kay Via 2/20/2020 kvia@intraprisehealth.com 6215 Hospital 1st Floor Elmer Community Hospital History 6224 Hospital 1st Floor Elmer Heart and Lung Center, Cardiac and Pulmonary Rehab 6263 Hospital 1st Floor Employee Health 6203 Hospital 1st Floor Financial Information, Financial Assistance 6256 Hospital 1st Floor Gift Shop 6253 Hospital 1st Floor Health Information Management 6200 Hospital 1st Floor Healthcare Concierge Hotline 6246 Hospital 1st Floor Hyperbaric Room 6244 Hospital 1st Floor Hyperbaric Therapy Check -In 6248 Hospital 1st Floor Hyperbaric Therapy Consult Room 6217 Hospital 1st Floor Labwork, Lab Client Services, Lab Patient Services 6194 Hospital 1st Floor Main Entrance 6214 Hospital 1st Floor Main Lobby 6272 Hospital 1st Floor Maternity Department - DISABLED 6225 Hospital 1st Floor Men's Locker Room 6195 Hospital 1st Floor Patient Registration, Main Lobby Welcome Desk, Visitor Information 6213 Hospital 1st Floor Pre-Admission Testing, Same Day Surgery 6238 Hospital 1st Floor Radiology, CT Scan, Medical Imaging Registration, XRAY, Interventional Radiology, MRI, Ultrasounds, CAT Scan, DEXA Scan, Mammogram, Vascular Lab, Thyroid Scan, Thyroid Biopsy, Video Swallow Studies, Barium Swallow Testing, Upper GI's, Nuclear Medicine, STAT Lab Work after 5 PM, General Ultrasounds, Venous Doppler, Arterial Doppler, Carotid Doppler, General OB, Ultrasound Gui ded Procedures, Arthrogram, Scoliosis, Thoracentesis, Paracentesis 6260 Hospital 1st Floor Staff Development, Nursing Education, Employee Education 6257 Hospital 1st Floor Volunteer Office 6226 Hospital 1st Floor Women's Locker Room 6297 Hospital 2nd Floor 2-East Patient Rooms 243 - 263 6280 Hospital 2nd Floor 2-South Patient Rooms 200 - 216 6291 Hospital 2nd Floor Administrative Conference Room 6279 Hospital 2nd Floor Chapel, Meditation Room 6287 Hospital 2nd Floor Classroom A 6284 Hospital 2nd Floor Community Room 6286 Hospital 2nd Floor Human Resources (HR) 6293 Hospital 2nd Floor ICU Consultation Room 6296 Hospital 2nd Floor ICU Patient Rooms 6294 Hospital 2nd Floor ICU Waiting 6283 Hospital 2nd Floor Solarium Family Waiting Room 6301 Wound Care Center 1st Floor Wound Care Center, Wound Care Center Lobby, Wound Care Center Registration If any changes are required, please notify: Jason Kelley at kelleyj1@ihn.org Kay Via at kvia@intraprisehealth.com Thank you! Inspira Health Medical Center – Mullica Hill Indoor Hospital Navigation Points of Interest Directory 1 Kay Via 2/20/2020 kvia@intraprisehealth.com Every Inspira Health Employee who has access to InspiraNet can WOW our patients and guests by introducing them to our Indoor Hospital Navigation system! Eyedog Ind oor wayfinding is based on photo landmarks. Backed by scientific research, Eyedog is more effective, easier to use, and less cognitively demanding than map -based solutions. Directions in the form of visual pathways can be made available to all visitors without downloading an app and with no need for constant Internet, WiFi, or Bluetooth connectivity. This directory will help Inspira employees to become familiar with the Points of Interest (POI) names to assist our patients and visitors to find their wayaround. All Inspira employees can access the Eyedog application quickly and easily from InspiraNet > Directoriesand clicking on the Indoor Hospital Navigation link. Click on the hospital image and the application opens. Next, simply  Selectastartpoint  Select an end point And then:  Pointasmartphone camera at the QR Code displayed on the monitor, tap the notification and the route generated transfers to the smartphone. (iOS and newer Android models supported). OR  An email options is also available. Click on the email icon. A prepopulated email opens, enter the recipients email address, and click send. This feature can be used in person or duringaphone conversation withapatient or guest to help deliveraphoto route any time. This documentis for INTERNAL USE only and not to be shared with patients or visitors. ID (Internal Use Only) Campus Location Level Point of Interest **** All Areas All Floors Restrooms (WhenaRestroom is selected asadestination distance is displayed to determine nearest to start location selected.) 8074 Emergency Department 1st Floor Behavioral Health Emergency Exam Rooms 1 - 6 8042 Emergency Department 1st Floor ED Vending 8128 Emergency Department 1st Floor Emergency Department Check -in, Emergency Department Registration 8033 Emergency Department 1st Floor Emergency Department Waiting 8049 Emergency Department 1st Floor Emergency Department Walk -in Entrance 8540 Emergency Department 1st Floor Emergency Discharge Lounge 8045 Emergency Department 1st Floor Emergency Discharge Office 8038 Emergency Department 1st Floor Emergency Discharge Reception Desk 8066 Emergency Department 1st Floor Emergency Exam Rooms 1 - 9 8068 Emergency Department 1st Floor Emergency Exam Rooms 10 - 14 8067 Emergency Department 1st Floor Emergency Exam Rooms 15 - 19 8069 Emergency Department 1st Floor Emergency Exam Rooms 20 - 24 8043 Emergency Department 1st Floor Emergency Exam Rooms 39 - 50 8061 Emergency Department 1st Floor Pediatric Activity / Multipurpose Room 8059 Emergency Department 1st Floor Pediatric Consult Room 8047 Emergency Department 1st Floor Pediatric Emergency Department Waiting 8053 Emergency Department 1st Floor Pediatric Emergency Exam Rooms 1 - 6 8057 Emergency Department 1st Floor Pediatric Family Lounge 8063 Emergency Department 1st Floor Pediatric Inpatient / Observation Rooms 7 -10 2 Kay Via 2/20/2020 kvia@intraprisehealth.com 8034 Emergency Department 1st Floor Security - Emergency Department 8070 Emergency Department 1st Floor Senior Emergency Exam Rooms 25 - 31 8071 Emergency Department 1st Floor Senior Emergency Exam Rooms 32 - 38 8031 Emergency Department 1st Floor Vending Machines, Emergency Department Vending, ED Vending 8947 Emergency Department Parking Parking E West (To Emergency Entrance) 8120 Hospital 1st Floor Administration Offices, Hospital Administration Offices 8121 Hospital 1st Floor Administrative Conference Room 1 8115 Hospital 1st Floor Administrative Conference Room 2 8117 Hospital 1st Floor Administrative Conference Room 3 8112 Hospital 1st Floor Administrative Conference Room 4 8125 Hospital 1st Floor Administrative Conference Room 5 8084 Hospital 1st Floor Cafeteria, Dining Room, The Bistro, The Servery 8025 Hospital 1st Floor Chaplain 8093 Hospital 1st Floor Classroom 1 8090 Hospital 1st Floor Classroom 2 8092 Hospital 1st Floor Classroom 3 8089 Hospital 1st Floor Classroom 4 8087 Hospital 1st Floor Classroom 5 8098 Hospital 1st Floor Classroom A 8099 Hospital 1st Floor Classroom B 8100 Hospital 1st Floor Classroom C 8086 Hospital 1st Floor CPR Classes, Baby Sitting Courses, Skills Fair, Birthing Classes, Parenting Classes, Breastfeeding Classes, Education Center 8537 Hospital 1st Floor Education Center (Staff Entrance) 8020 Hospital 1st Floor Foundation Donor Wall 8076 Hospital 1st Floor Gift Shop 8104 Hospital 1st Floor Human Resources 8017 Hospital 1st Floor Inspira Health History 8078 Hospital 1st Floor Inspira Health+ 8077 Hospital 1st Floor Lobby Conference Room, Hospital Lobby Conference Room 8006 Hospital 1st Floor Main Entrance, Hospital Main Entrance 8021 Hospital 1st Floor Main Lobby - 1st Floor, Hospital Main Lobby - 1st Floor 8528 Hospital 1st Floor Medical Imaging & Cardio Diagnostics Check -in, Medical Imaging & Cardio Diagnostics Waiting 8110 Hospital 1st Floor Medical Records, Health Information Management 8109 Hospital 1st Floor Medical Staff Lounge 8123 Hospital 1st Floor Medical Staff Office 8534 Hospital 1st Floor Patient Registration, Main Lobby Welcome Desk, Guest Services, Hospital Main Lobby Welcome Desk 8009 Hospital 1st Floor Radiology, CT Scan, Nuclear Medicine, MRI, XRAY, Cardiac Cath, Heart Catherizations, Interventional Radiology, Ultrasounds, CAT Scan, DEXA Scan, Mammogram, Angiograms, Vascular Lab, Thyroid Scan, Thyroid Biopsy, Breast Biopsy, Video Swallow Studies, Barium Swallow Testing, Upper GI's, Vascular Studies, General Ultrasounds, Venous Doppler, SAVI Scout Procedures, Cardiopulmonary Registration, Nuclear Cardiology, Cardiovascular Services, Cardiac Stress Testing, Routine Str ess Testing, Stress ECHO, Tilt Table Test, Echocardiograms, ECHO, Bubble Study, Pulmonary Function, 3 Kay Via 2/20/2020 kvia@intraprisehealth.com Complete PFT, Routine EEG, ECG, EKG, Holter Monitoring, Heart Testing, ABG, Pulse Oximetry, Cardiopulmonary, 6 Minute Walk Testing, Balance Testing, Respira tory Testing, Breathing Test, Lung Testing, Seizure Testing, Sterotactic Breast Biopsy, Arterial Doppler, Carotid Doppler, General OB, Ultrasound Guided Procedures, Sleep EEG 8018 Hospital 1st Floor Reflection Room 8126 Hospital 1st Floor Volunteer Office 8148 Hospital 2nd Floor Birth Certificate Office 8146 Hospital 2nd Floor Employee Lactation Room 8147 Hospital 2nd Floor Intermediate Care Nursery Rooms 1 - 6 8150 Hospital 2nd Floor Lactation Consultant 8151 Hospital 2nd Floor Maternal Child Health Department, Labor & Delivery Rooms 1 - 20 8153 Hospital 2nd Floor Maternal Child Health Waiting 8145 Hospital 2nd Floor PACU/Recovery Rooms 1 - 14 8138 Hospital 2nd Floor Prep / Recovery Rooms 1 - 10 8161 Hospital 2nd Floor Prep / Recovery Rooms 11 - 32 8131 Hospital 2nd Floor Security - Main Lobby (1st Floor), Concierge 8133 Hospital 2nd Floor Surgery & Endoscopy Reception 8132 Hospital 2nd Floor Surgical & Interventional Services Lobby - 2nd Floor 8166 Hospital 3rd Floor Elevator Lobby - 3rd Floor 8175 Hospital 3rd Floor ICU Conference Room, 3E Multipurpose 1 8172 Hospital 3rd Floor ICU Consult Room 8170 Hospital 3rd Floor ICU Family Locker Rooms 8169 Hospital 3rd Floor ICU Family Lounge - 3rd Floor, ICU Waiting - 3rd Floor 8967 Hospital 3rd Floor Inpatient / Observation Unit Rooms 333 - 364 8180 Hospital 3rd Floor Intensive Care Unit Rooms 301 - 320 8915 Hospital 3rd Floor Palliative Care 8190 Hospital 4th Floor Conference Room - 4th Floor 8185 Hospital 4th Floor Elevator Lobby - 4th Floor 8191 Hospital 4th Floor Step Down Unit Rooms 401 - 432 8187 Hospital 4th Floor Step Down Unit Rooms 433 - 464 8209 Hospital 5th Floor Conference Room - 5th Floor 8196 Hospital 5th Floor Elevator Lobby - 5th Floor 8211 Hospital 5th Floor Employee Health 8203 Hospital 5th Floor Medical Surgical Unit Rooms 501 - 532 8200 Hospital 5th Floor Medical Surgical Unit Rooms 533 - 564 8210 Hospital 5th Floor Rehab Gym 8977 Hospital Parking Parking A East (To Hospital Main Entrance) 8971 Hospital Parking Parking A North (To Outpatient or Hospital Entrances) 8832 MOB - Leading Edge Cancer Center 1st Floor Cancer Center Elevator Lobby - 1st Floor 8814 MOB - Leading Edge Cancer Center 1st Floor Cancer Center Entrance 8811 MOB - Leading Edge Cancer Center 1st Floor Cancer Center Patient & Visitor Information 8809 MOB - Leading Edge Cancer Center 1st Floor Patient and Family Resource Center 4 Kay Via 2/20/2020 kvia@intraprisehealth.com 8833 MOB - Leading Edge Cancer Center 1st Floor Radiation Oncology 8840 MOB - Leading Edge Cancer Center 2nd Floor Cancer Center Elevator Lobby - 2nd Floor 8843 MOB - Leading Edge Cancer Center 2nd Floor Infusion Center (Suite 200) 8846 MOB - Leading Edge Cancer Center 2nd Floor Infusion Center Waiting 8876 MOB - Leading Edge Cancer Center 3rd Floor Cancer Center Elevator Lobby - 3rd Floor 8878 MOB - Leading Edge Cancer Center 3rd Floor Inspira Medical Group Specialty Services (Suite 300), IMG Hematology Specialty Services (Suite 300), IMG Oncology Specialty Services (Suite 300), IMG Breast Can cer Specialty Services (Suite 300), IMG Rectal Colon Specialty Services (Suite 300) 8935 MOB - Leading Edge Cancer Center Parking Parking B East (To Cancer Center Entrance) 8790 MOB - Outpatients 1st Floor Avenue Caf Vending 8787 MOB - Outpatients 1st Floor Inspira Health Pharmacy (Suite 130) 8788 MOB - Outpatients 1st Floor Outpatient Elevator Lobby - 1st Floor 8783 MOB - Outpatients 1st Floor Outpatient Entrance 8793 MOB - Outpatients 1st Floor Outpatient Lab Services (Suite 120), OP Imaging/XRAY Services (Suite 120), Pre -Admission Testing (Suite 120) 8786 MOB - Outpatients 1st Floor Outpatient Patient & Visitor Information 8777 MOB - Outpatients 1st Floor Premier Orthopaedics Radiation Oncology, Premier Orthopaedics Spine Associates, Premier Orthopaedics (Suite 150) 8779 MOB - Outpatients 1st Floor Rehabilitation Services (Suite 140) 8923 MOB - Outpatients 2nd Floor Advocare West Deptford Pediatrics (Suite 210) 8852 MOB - Outpatients 2nd Floor IMG OB/GYN (Suite 220), Inspira Medical Group Obstetrics & Gynecology (Suite 220) 8868 MOB - Outpatients 2nd Floor Maternal Fetal Medicine & Women's Imaging (Suite 240), MFM & Women's Imaging (Suite 240) 8854 MOB - Outpatients 2nd Floor Outpatient Elevator Lobby - 2nd Floor 8914 MOB - Outpatients 3rd Floor Cardiac and Pulmonary Rehabilitation (Suite 350) 8899 MOB - Outpatients 3rd Floor Cumberland Nephrology Associates (Suite 310), ESA South Jersey Bariatrics (Suite 310), Warmouth Institute of Dermatology (Suite 310), Suite 310 8906 MOB - Outpatients 3rd Floor Inspira Medical Group Bariatric Surgery (Suite 330), Inspira Medical Group Cardiology (Suite 330), Inspira Medical Group General & Vascular Surgery (Suite 330), Inspira Medical Group Pulmonology (Suite 330), Suite 330 8884 MOB - Outpatients 3rd Floor Outpatient Elevator Lobby - 3rd Floor 8907 MOB - Outpatients 3rd Floor Wound Care Services (Suite 340) If any changes are required, please notify: Jason Kelley at kelleyj1@ihn.org Kay Via at kvia@intraprisehealth.com Inspira Health Medical Center – Vineland Indoor Hospital Navigation Points of Interest Directory 1 Kay Via 2/20/2020 kvia@intraprisehealth.com Every Inspira Health Employee who has access to InspiraNet can WOW our patients and guests by introducing them to our Indoor Hospital Navigation system! Eyedog Ind oor wayfinding is based on photo landmarks. Backed by scientific research, Eyedog is more effective, easier to use, and less cognitively demanding than map -based solutions. Directions in the form of visual pathways can be made available to all visitors without downloading an app and with no need for constant Internet, WiFi, or Bluetooth connectivity. This directory will help Inspira employees to become familiar with the Points of Interest (POI) names to assist our patients and visitors to find their wayaround. All Inspira employees can access the Eyedog application quickly and easily from InspiraNet > Directoriesand clicking on the Indoor Hospital Navigation link. Click on the hospital image and the application opens. Next, simply  Selectastart point  Select an end point And then :  Pointasmartphone camera at the QR Code displayedon the monitor, tap the notification and the route generated transfers to the smartphone. (iOS and newer Android models supported). OR  An email options is also availabl e. Click on the email icon. A prepopulated email opens, enter the recipients email address, and click send. This feature can be used in person or duringaphone conversation withapatient or guest to help deliveraphoto route any time. This document is for INTERNAL USE only and not to be shared with patients or visitors. ID (Internal Use Only) Campus Location Level Point of Interest **** All Areas All Floors Restrooms (WhenaRestroom is selected asadestination distance is displayed to determine nearest to start location selected.) 1094 Hospital Garden Level ATM, Public Telephone 1101 Hospital Garden Level Cafeteria 1102 Hospital Garden Level Dining Room 1099 Hospital Garden Level Garden Level Conference Room 1088 Hospital Garden Level Garden Level Museum 1103 Hospital Garden Level Vending Machines 1047 Emergency Department 1st Floor Emergency Patient Beds #1 -11, Senior Emergency Patient Beds #1-11, Emergency Patient Beds #12 -19, Emergency Trauma Patient Beds #1 -4, Emergency Pediatric Patient Beds #20 -27, Emergency Room Check -in 1044 Emergency Department 1st Floor Emergency Patient Beds #31 -42, Side -D Emergency Patient Beds, Emergency Patient Beds #43 -49 1049 Emergency Department 1st Floor Emergency Room Entrance 1218 Emergency Department 1st Floor Emergency Room Waiting, Senior Emergency Room Waiting 1045 Emergency Department 1st Floor Vendor Check -in Kiosk, Security 1040 Hospital 1st Floor 1-East Patient Rooms 1 - 24 1030 Hospital 1st Floor Birth Certificate Office 1038 Hospital 1st Floor Birthing Suites 101 - 110, Labor & Delivery Rooms 101 - 110, Obstetrical Emergency Department - DISABLED 6304 Hospital 1st Floor CK Classroom A 2 Kay Via 2/20/2020 kvia@intraprisehealth.com 6191 Hospital 1st Floor CK Classroom B 6190 Hospital 1st Floor CK Conference Room 1010 Hospital 1st Floor Coffee Cart 1214 Hospital 1st Floor CT/MRI 1064 Hospital 1st Floor Education Reception, CPR Classes, Residency Program, Mentoring Program, Shadowing Program, Graduate Medical Education, Weight Loss Counseling, Baby Sitting Courses, Skills Fair, Birthing Classes, Parenting Classes, Health Education, Maternity Tours, Breastfeeding Classes 1027 Hospital 1st Floor Gift Shop 1056 Hospital 1st Floor Health Information Management 9646 Hospital 1st Floor Human Resources (HR) 1028 Hospital 1st Floor Inspira Health+ 1002 Hospital 1st Floor Main Entrance 1005 Hospital 1st Floor Main Lobby - 1st Floor 999 Hospital 1st Floor Main Lobby Welcome Desk 1025 Hospital 1st Floor Medical Imaging Registration 1014 Hospital 1st Floor Memorial Garden 1016 Hospital 1st Floor Memorial Garden Family Waiting 1031 Hospital 1st Floor Mother Baby Patient Rooms 111 - 124 - DISABLED 1201 Hospital 1st Floor Neonatal Intensive Care, Special Care Nursery - DISABLED 7114 Hospital 1st Floor Outpatient Entrance 1061 Hospital 1st Floor Outpatient Registration, Patient Business Services, Charity Care, Medicaid, Bill Payment, Financial Information, Diabetes Education, Nutrition Counseling, Labwork, Outpatient Waiting Room 1012 Hospital 1st Floor Pediatric Patient Rooms 131 - 144, 1 -West Patient Rooms 125 - 130, 1 -West Patient Rooms 145 - 152 1212 Hospital 1st Floor Radiology, XRAY, Cardiac Cath, Heart Catherizations, Interventional Radiology, MRI, Ultrasounds, CAT Scan, CT Scan, DEXA Scan, Mammogram, Angiograms, Vascular Lab, Thyroid Scan, Thyroid Biopsy, Breast Biopsy, Video Swallow Studies, Barium Swallow Testing, Upper GI's, Nuclear Medicine, Fistulagrams, STAT Lab Work after 5 PM, Heart & Vascular Same Day Surgery, Vascular Studies, Gen eral Ultrasounds, Venous Doppler, SAVI Scout Procedures, Cardiopulmonary Registration, Nuclear Cardiology, Cardiovascular Services, Cardiac Stress Testing, Routine Stress Testing, Stress ECHO, Tilt Table Test, Echocardiograms, ECHO, Bubble Study, Pulmonary Function, Complete PFT, Routine EEG, Sleep Deprived EEG, ECG, EKG, Holter Monitoring, Heart Testing, ABG, Pulse Oximetry, Cardiopulmonary, 6 Minute Walk Testing, Balance Testing, Respiratory Testing, Breathing Test, Lung Testing, Brain Testing, Neuro Test ing, Seizure Testing, Sterotactic Breast Biopsy, Arterial Doppler, Carotid Doppler, General OB 1037 Hospital 1st Floor Women's & Children's Outpatient Reception, Outpatient Children's Services Waiting Room, Maternal Fetal Medicine, Fetal Echoes, First Screen, Sequential Screen, Antenatal Testing Unit (ATU), Non Stress Testing, Monitoring, Rhogam Injection, Preconception Co nsultation, Genetic Testing, Amniocentesis, 3 Kay Via 2/20/2020 kvia@intraprisehealth.com Chorionic Villus Sampling, Version, External Cephalic Version, CHOP Cardiology 1033 Hospital 1st Floor Women's Imaging Reception, Vascular Lab Reception, Breast Imaging Center 6186 Hospital 2nd Floor 2-East Con ference Room A 6188 Hospital 2nd Floor 2-East Conference Room B 6187 Hospital 2nd Floor 2-East Family Waiting Room 6189 Hospital 2nd Floor 2-East Patient Rooms 263 - 298 1121 Hospital 2nd Floor Chapel, Meditation Room 1133 Hospital 2nd Floor ICU Family Waiting - 2nd Floor 1123 Hospital 2nd Floor Spiritual Care, Chaplain 1113 Hospital 2nd Floor Surgery & Endoscopy Reception, Pre -Admission Testing, Surgical Greeting Station 1124 Hospital 2nd Floor Surgical Acute Patient Rooms 227 - 262 1204 Hospital 2nd Floor Surgical Care Center Lobby - 2nd Floor 1111 Hospital 2nd Floor Surgical Care Conference Room 1135 Hospital 2nd Floor Surgical ICU Patient Rooms 201 - 212 1130 Hospital 2nd Floor Surgical Step Down Patient Rooms 211 - 226 1117 Hospital 2nd Floor Wi-fi Bar 1166 Hospital 3rd Floor Employee Health 1168 Hospital 3rd Floor ICU Family Waiting - 3rd Floor 1162 Hospital 3rd Floor Medical Acute Patient Rooms 326 - 362 1173 Hospital 3rd Floor Medical Care Center Lobby - 3rd Floor 1155 Hospital 3rd Floor Medical Conference Room 1170 Hospital 3rd Floor Medical ICU Patient Rooms 301 - 312 1164 Hospital 3rd Floor Medical Step Down Patient Rooms 313 - 325 1184 Hospital 4th Floor Cardiac Acute Patient Rooms 426 - 462 1189 Hospital 4th Floor Cardiac Care 4th Floor Conference Room 1176 Hospital 4th Floor Cardiac Care Center Lobby - 4th Floor 1202 Hospital 4th Floor Cardiac Care Reception, Volunteer Greeting Station 1198 Hospital 4th Floor Cardiac ICU Patient Rooms 401 - 412 1191 Hospital 4th Floor Cardiac Pulmonary Rehab Check -in 1193 Hospital 4th Floor Cardiac Pulmonary Rehabilitation 1194 Hospital 4th Floor Cardiac Step Down Patient Rooms 413 - 425 1196 Hospital 4th Floor ICU Family Waiting - 4th Floor 1078 Scarpa Pavilion 1st Floor Radiation Oncology, Lauren Krill, MD, Glenda Smith MD, Joseph Fanelle MD, Cancer Treatment Center, PET SCAN 1074 Scarpa Pavilion 1st Floor Scarpa Cancer Pavilion Entrance 1138 Scarpa Pavilion 2nd Floor Cancer Pavilion Reception - 2nd Floor, NJCEED Cumberland County 1146 Scarpa Pavilion 2nd Floor Gus J. Slotman MD, Nandini N. Kulkarni, MD, Peter J. Senatore, Jr., MD, Vinay Gundlapalli, MD 1141 Scarpa Pavilion 2nd Floor Medical Outpatient Services 1076 SOHA 1st Floor SOHA Reception, Southern Oncology Associates, Southern Hematology Associates, Rama Sudhindra MD, Kush Sachdeva MD, Shailja Roy MD, Benjamin Negin MD, Omar Al Ustwani MD, Vijay Sandilya MD, Mysti Blizzard, APN, Jennifer Clark APN 1075 SOHA 1st Floor South ern Oncology Associates Entrance, Southern Hematology Associates Entrance 4 Kay Via 2/20/2020 kvia@intraprisehealth.com If any changes are required, please notify: Jason Kelley at kelleyj1@ihn.org Kay Via at kvia@intraprisehealth.com Thank you!  2020 Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME) All rights reserved except the copyright owners grant third parties the right to use the Psychiatry Milestones onanon-exclusive basis for educational purposes. Psychiatry Milestones The Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education Implementation Date: July 1, 2021 Second Revision: March 2020 First Revision: November 2013 2020 Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME) All rights reserved except the copyright owners grant third parties the right to use the Psychiatry Milestones onanon-exclusive basis for educational purposes. ii Psychiatry Milestones The Milestones are designed only for use in evaluation of residents in the context of their participation in ACGME-accredited residency or fellowship programs. The Milestones provideaframework for the assessment of the development of the resident in key dimensions of the elements of physician competence inaspecialty or subspecialty. They neither represent the entirety of the dimensions of the six domains of physician competenc e, nor are they designed to be relevant in any other context. 2020 Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME) All rights reserved except the copyright owners grant third parties the right to use the Psychiatry Milestones onanon-exclusive basis for educational purposes. iii Psychiatry Milestones Work Group Elie Aoun, MD Jeff Aronowitz, DO Adrienne Bentman, MD Lynneice Bowen, MD Brittany Campbell Deborah Cowley, MD Sandra DeJong, MD, MSc Laura Edgar, EdD, CAE Lillian Joy Houston, MD, FAPA Furhut Janssen, DO George Keepers, MD Mark Kinzie, MD, PhD Matthew Macaluso, DO Patcho Santiago, MD, MPH The ACGME would like to thank the following organizations for their continued support in the development of the Milestones: American Association of Directors of Psychiatric Residency Training American Board of Psychiatry and Neurology American College of Osteopathic Neurologists and Psychiatrists American Osteopathic Board of Psychiatry and Neurology ACGME Review Committee for Psychiatry2020 Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME) All rights reserved except the copyright owners grant third parties the right to use the Psychiatry Milestones onanon-exclusive basis for educational purposes. iv Understanding Milestone Levels and Reporting This document presents the Milestones, which programs use inasemi -annual review of resident performance, and then report to the ACGME. Milestones are knowledge, skills, attitudes, and other attributes for each of the ACGME Competencies organized inadevelopmental framework. The narrative descriptions are targets for resident performance throughout their educational program. Milestones are arranged into levels. Tracking from Level 1 to Level 5 is synonymous with moving from novice to expert resident in the specialty or subspecialty. For each reporting period, the Clinical Competency Committee will review the completed evaluations to select the milestone levels that best describe each learner’s current performance, abilities, and attributes for each subcompetency. These levels do not correspond with post-graduate year of education. Depending on previous experience,ajunior resident may achieve higher levels early in his/her educational program just asasenior resident may be atalower level later in his/her educational program. There is no predetermined timing foraresident to attain any part icular level. Residents may also regress in achievement of their milestones. This may happen for many reasons, such as over scoring inaprevious review,adisjointed experience inaparticular procedure, orasignificant act by the resident. Selection ofalevel implies the resident/fellow substantially demonstrates the milestones in that level, as well as those in lower levels (see the diagram on page vi). 2020 Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME) All rights reserved except the copyright owners grant third parties the right to use the Psychiatry Milestones onanon-exclusive basis for educational purposes.vAdditional Notes Level 4 is designed asagraduation goal but does not representagraduation requirement. Making decisions about readiness for graduation and unsupervised practice is the purview of the program director. Furthermore, Milestones 2.0 include revisions and changes that preclude using Milestones asasole assessment in high- stakes decisions (i.e., determination of eligibility for certification or credentialing). Level 5 is designed to represent an expert resident whose achievements inasubcompetency aregreater than the expectation. Milestones are primarily designed for formative, developmental purposes to support continuous quality improvement for individual learners, education programs, and the specialty. The ACGME and its partners will continue to evaluate and perform research on the Milestones to assess their impact and value. Examples are provided for some milestones within this document. Please note: the examples are not the required element or outcome; they are provided asaway to share the intent of the element. Some milestone descriptions include statements about performing independently. These activities must occur in conformity to ACGME supervision guidelines as described in the Program Requirements, as well as to institutional and program policies. For example,aresident who performsaprocedure independently must, ataminimum, be supervised through oversight. A Supplemental Guide is also available to provide the intent of each subcompetency, examples for each level, assessment methods or tools, and other available resources. The Supplemental Guide, like examples contained within the Milestones, is designed only to assist the program director and Clinical Competency Committee, and is not meant to demonstrate any required element or outcome. Additional resources are available in the Milestones section of the ACGME website. Follow the links under “What We Do” at www.acgme.org. 2020 Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME) All rights reserved except the copyright owners grant third parties the right to use the Psychiatry Milestones onanon-exclusive basis for educational purposes. vi The diagram below presents an example set of milestones for one sub- competency in the same format as the ACGME Report Worksheet. For each reporting period,aresident’s performance on the milestones for each sub- competency will be indicated by selecting the level of milestones that best describes that resident’s performance in relation tothose milestones. Selectingaresponse box in the middle ofalevel implies that milestones in that level and in lower levels have been substantially demonstrated. Selectingaresponse box on the line in between levels indicates that milestones in lower levels have been substantially demonstrated as well as some milestones in the higher level(s). Version 2 Psychiatry Milestones, ACGME Report Worksheet 2020 Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME) All rights reserved except the copyright owners grant third parties the right to use the Psychi atry Milestones onanon-exclusive basis for educational purposes. 1 Patient Care 1: Psychiatric Evaluation A: Gathers and organizes findings from the patient interview and mental status examination B: Gathers and organizes data from collateral sources C: Screens for risk and integrates risk assessment into the patient evaluation Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Level 4 Level 5 Collects general medical and psychiatric history and completesamental status examination Collects relevant information from collateral sources Screens for risk of harm to self, to others, or by others Efficiently acquires an accurate and relevant history and performsatargeted examination customized to the patient's presentation Selects appropriate laboratory and diagnostic tests Engages inabasic risk assessment and basic safety planning Uses hypothesis -driven information gathering to obtain complete, accurate, and relevant history Interprets collateral information and test results to determine necessary additional steps Incorporates risk and protective factors into the assessment of imminent, short, and long-term patient safety and the safety of others Elicits and observes subtle and unusual findings Interprets collateral information and test results to determine necessary additional steps in the evaluation of complex conditions Incorporates risk and protective factors into the assessment of complex patient presentations, including eliciting information not readily offered by the patient Serves asarole model for gathering subtle and accurate findings from the patient and collateral sources Serves asarole model for risk assessment Comments: Not Yet Assessable Not Yet Completed Level 1 Version 2 Psychiatry Milestones, ACGME Report Worksheet 2020 Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME) All rights reserved except the copyright owners grant third parties the right to use the Psychi atry Milestones onanon-exclusive basis for educational purposes. 2 Patient Care 2: Psychiatric Formulation and Differential Diagnosis A: Organizes and summarizes findings and generates differential diagnosis B: Identifies contributing factors and contextual features and createsaformulation C: Uses the emotional responses of clinician and patient as diagnostic information Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Level 4 Level 5 Organizes and accurately summarizes information obtained from the patient evaluation to developaclinical impression Recognizes that biological, psychosocial, and developmental/life cycle factors playarole inapatient’s presentation Recognizes that clinicians have emotional responses to patients Integrates information from the most relevant sources to developabasic differential diagnosis for common patient presentations Identifies the biological, psychosocial, and developmental/life cycle factors that contribute toapatient’s presentation Recognizes that clinicians’ emotional responses have diagnostic value Developsathorough and prioritized differential diagnosis while avoiding premature closure forarange of patient presentations Synthesizes all information intoaconcise but comprehensive formulation, taking into account biological, psychosocial, and developmental/life cycle factors Begins to use the clinician's emotional responses to the patient to aid formulation Develops diffe rential diagnoses in complex cases and incorporates subtle, unusual, or conflicting findings Develops formulations based on multiple conceptual models Integrates clinician’s and patient’s emotional responses into the diagnosis and formulation Serves asarole model in the development of accurate and complete differential diagnoses and formulations Comments: Not Yet Assessable Not Yet Completed Level 1 Version 2 Psychiatry Milestones, ACGME Report Worksheet 2020 Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME) All rights reserved except the copyright owners grant third parties the right to use the Psychi atry Milestones onanon-exclusive basis for educational purposes. 3 Patient Care 3: Treatment Planning and Management A: Creates treatment plan B: Monitors and revises treatment when indicated C: Incorporates the use of community resources Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Level 4 Level 5 Identifies potential biopsychosocial treatment options Recognizes that acuity affects level of care and treatment monitoring Gives examples of community resources Engages the patient in the selection of evidence-based biopsychosocial treatment, recognizing that comorbid conditions and side effects impact treatment Selects the most appropriate level of care based on acuity and monitors treatment adherence and response Coordinates care with community resources Applies an understanding of psychiatric, neurologic, and medical comorbidities in the management of common presentations Selects the most appropriate interventions, treatments, and adjustments in treatment in common presentations based on consideration of patient factors and acuity Incorporates support and advocacy groups in treatment planning Devises individualized treatment plan for complex presentations; integrates multiple modalities and providers inacomprehensive approach Selects the most appropriate interventions, treatments, and adjustments in treatment in complex presentations based on consideration of patient factors and acuity Locates and connects patients to community resources in complex and difficult situations Supervises treatment planning of other learners and multidisciplinary providers Participates in the creation or administration of community-based programs Comments: Not Yet Assessable Not Yet Completed Level 1 Version 2 Psychiatry Milestones, ACGME Report Worksheet 2020 Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME) All rights reserved except the copyright owners grant third parties the right to use the Psychi atry Milestones onanon-exclusive basis for educational purposes. 4 Patient Care 4: Psychotherapy A: Establishes therapeutic alliance and manages boundaries B: Selects, sets goals, and provides psychotherapies including supportive, psychodynamic, and cognitive-behavioral C: Manages therapeutic process Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Level 4 Level 5 Establishesaworking relationship with patients demonstrating interest and empathy Lists the three core psychotherapies Accurately identifies patient emotions, particularly sadness, anger, and fear Establishesabounded therapeutic alliance with patients with uncomplicated problems Uses the common factors of psychotherapy in providing supportive therapy to patients Identifies and reflects the core feelings and key issues for the patient during the session Establishes and maintainsatherapeutic alliance with patients with uncomplicated problems, and can recognize and avoid boundary violations Provides selected psychotherapies (including supportive, psychodynamic, and cognitive-behavioral), sets goals and integrates therapy with other treatment modalities Identifies and reflects the core feelings, key issues and what the issues mean to the patient during the session, while managing the emotional content and feelings elicited Establishes and maintains therapeutic alliance with patients with complicated problems, and can anticipate and appropriately manage boundary violations Selects appropriate psychotherapeutic modality based on case formulation, tailors the therapy to the patient, and provides psychotherapy (at least supportive and one of psychodynamic or cognitive-behavioral) to complex patients Identifies and reflects the core feelings, key issues, and what the issues mean to the patient within and across sessions Assesses and can help repair troubled alliances and/or boundary difficulties between junior residents and their patients Tailors psychotherapeutic treatment based on awareness of own skill sets, strengths, and limitations Links feelings, recurrent/central themes/schemas and their meaning to the patient as they shift within and across sessions Comments: Not Yet Assessable Not Yet Completed Level 1 Version 2 Psychiatry Milestones, ACGME Report Worksheet 2020 Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME) All rights reserved except the copyright owners grant third parties the right to use the Psychi atry Milestones onanon-exclusive basis for educational purposes. 5 Patient Care 5: Somatic Therapies (including Psychopharmacology and Neurostimulation Therapies ) A: Understands the mechanisms of action, indications, and evidence base for somatic therapies and appropriately appli es them to patient care B: Educates patients about somatic therapies including access to accurate psychoeducational resources C: Appropriately monitorspatient’s response to treatment Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Level 4 Level 5 Lists commonly used somatic therapies and their indications to target specific psychiatric symptoms Reviews with the patient general indications and common adverse effects for commonly prescribed drugs and other somatic treatments Lists key baseline assessments necessary before initiating somatic treatments to ensure patient safety Appropriately prescribes commonly used somatic therapies and understands their mechanism of action Appropriately uses educational and other resources to support the patient and optimize understanding and adherence Obtains baseline assessments necessary before initiating treatment with commonly used somatic therapies Researches, cites, and starts to apply the evidence base when developing treatment plans that include somatic therapies Explains mechanisms of action and the body’s response to commonly prescribed drugs and other somatic treatments (including drug metabolism) to patients/families Monitors relevant assessments and adverse effects throughout treatment and incorporates findings from the literature into treatment strategy Consistently applies the evidence base when developing treatment plans that include somatic therapies, including with complex or treatment-refractory cases Explains less common somatic treatment choices to patients/families in terms of proposed mechanisms of action, potential risks and benefits, and the evidence base Manages adverse effects and safety concerns in complex or treatment refractory cases Manages complexcombinations of somatic therapies and considers novel approaches Leads the development of novel patient educational processes or materials Incorporates new developments in the evidence base into treatment to optimize safety, minimize adverse effects, and improve response Comments: Not Yet Assessable Not Yet Completed Level 1 Version 2 Psychiatry Milestones, ACGME Report Worksheet 2020 Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME) All rights reserved except the copyright owners grant third parties the right to use the Psychi atry Milestones onanon-exclusive basis for educational purposes. 6 Patient Care 6: Clinical Consultation Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Level 4 Level 5 Respectfully requestsaconsultation Respectfully receivesaconsultation request Clearly and concisely requestsaconsultation Clearly and concisely responds toaconsultation request Demonstrates understanding of the consultation model, including liaison function Applies consultant recommendations judiciously to patient care Assists consulting team in identifying unrecognized clinical care issues and provides relevant recommendations, checking for understanding Demonstrates understanding of models of integrated multidisciplinary mental health and primary care Critically appraises and integrates diverse recommendations Manages complicated and challenging consultation requests Collaborates skillfully with practitioners from other disciplines in medical settings Contributes to identifying and rectifying flaws of consultation system Leads consultation-liaison psychiatry teams Serves asaleader of integrated care teams or implementation projects Comments: Not Yet Assessable Not Yet Completed Level 1 Version 2 Psychiatry Milestones, ACGME Report Worksheet 2020 Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME) All rights reserved except the copyright owners grant third parties the right to use the Psychi atry Milestones onanon-exclusive basis for educational purposes. 7 Medical Knowledge 1: Development through the Life Cycle (including the Impact of Psychopathology on the Trajectory of Development and Development on the Expression of Psychopathology) A: Knowledge of human development B: Knowledge of pathological and environmental influences on development Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Level 4 Level 5 Conceptualizes development as occurring in stages throughout the life cycle Recognizes major deviations from typical development Describes the basic stages of typical biological, sociocultural, sexual, and cognitive development throughout the life cycle Gives examples of biological, psychological, sociocultural, cognitive, and sexual factors that contribute toashift towards an atypical developmental trajectory Explains developmental tasks and transitions throughout the life cycle, using multiple conceptual models Describes the influence of biological, psychological, sociocultural, cognitive, and sexual factors on atypical personality development and psychopath ology Articulates an integrated understanding of typical development Describes how acquiring and losing specific capacities can influence the expression of psychopathology Incorporates new knowledge into own understanding of typical and atypical development Comments: Not Yet Assessable Not Yet Completed Level 1 Version 2 Psychiatry Milestones, ACGME Report Worksheet 2020 Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME) All rights reserved except the copyright owners grant third parties the right to use the Psychi atry Milestones onanon-exclusive basis for educational purposes. 8 Medical Knowledge 2: Psychopathology (includes Knowledge of Diagnostic Criteria, Epidemiology, Pathophysiology, Course of Illness, Comorbidities, and Differential Diagnosis of Psychiatric Disorders, including Substance Use Disorders and Presentation of Psychiatric Disorders across the Life Cycle and in Diverse Patient Populations) A: Knowledge to identify and treat psychiatric conditions B: Knowledge at the interface of psychiatry and the rest of medicine Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Level 4 Level 5 Identifies the major psychiatric diagnostic categories Gives examples of interactions between medical and psychiatric symptoms and disorders Demonstrates sufficient knowledge to identify and assess common psychiatric conditions Demonstrates sufficient knowledge to identify common medical conditions in psychiatric patients Demonstrates sufficient knowledge to identify and treat common psychiatric conditions throughout the life cycle Applies knowledge to identify and treat common psychiatric symptoms due to other medical illness Demonstrates sufficient knowledge to identify and treat atypical and complex psychiatric conditions throughout the life cycle Applies knowledge to identify and treatawide range of psychiatric conditions in patients with comorbid medical disorders and ensures treatment of medical conditions in psychiatric patients Applies knowledge to identify and manage uncommon conditions at the interface of psychiatry and medicine Comments: Not Yet Assessable Not Yet Completed Level 1 Version 2 Psychiatry Milestones, ACGME Report Worksheet 2020 Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME) All rights reserved except the copyright owners grant third parties the right to use the Psychi atry Milestones onanon-exclusive basis for educational purposes. 9 Medical Knowledge 3: Clinical Neuroscience (includes Knowledge of Neurology, Neuropsychiatry, Neurodiagnostic Testing, and Relevant Neuroscience and their Application in Clinical Settings) A: Neurodiagnostic and neuropsychological testing B: Neuropsychiatric comorbidity C: Application of neuroscientific findings in psychiatry Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Level 4 Level 5 Lists commonly available neuroimaging, neurophysiologic, and neuropsychological tests Describes basic components and functions of the nervous system Describes basic features of common neurologic disorders Describes indications for common neuroimaging, neurophysiologic, and neuropsychological tests Describes major neurobiological processes underlying common psychiatric illness Describes with the interplay between psychiatric and neurologic disorders Identifies the significance of findings in routine neuroimaging, neurophysiologic, and neuropsychological tests Explains how neurobiological processes are included inacase formulation Identifies common comorbidities of between psychiatric and neurologic disorders Correlates the significance of neuroimaging, neurophysiological, and neuropsychological testing results to case formulation and treatment planning Correlates neurobiological processes into case formulation and treatment planning Synthesizes knowledge of psychiatric and neurologic comorbidities for case formulation and treatment Integrates recent neuroimaging, neurophysiologic, and neuropsychological tests research into understanding of psychopathology Engages in scholarly activity related to neuroscience and psychiatric disorders Integrates recent research into understanding of the interface between neurology and psychiatry Comments: Not Yet Assessable Not Yet Completed Level 1 Version 2 Psychiatry Milestones, ACGME Report Worksheet 2020 Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME) All rights reserved except the copyright owners grant third parties the right to use the Psychi atry Milestones onanon-exclusive basis for educational purposes. 10 Medical Knowledge 4: Psychotherapy A: Fundamentals B: Practice and indications C: Evidence base Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Level 4 Level 5 Identifies psychotherapy as an effective modality of treatment Describes the basic framework ofapsychotherapeutic experience Lists the three core psychotherapy modalities Describes the common elements across psychotherapeutic modalities Lists the basic indications and benefits of using psychotherapy Describes the evidence for one core psychotherapy modality Identifies the central theoretical principles across the three core psychotherapeutic modalities: supportive, psychodynamic, cognitive-behavioral Identifies the techniques of the three core individual psychotherapies Summarizes the evidence base for the three core individual psychotherapies Explains the theoretical mechanisms of therapeutic change in each of the three core modalities Compares the selection criteria and potential risks, and benefits of the three core individual psychotherapies Analyzes the evidence base for combining psychotherapy and pharmacotherapy Incorporates new theoretical developments into knowledge base Demonstrates sufficient evidence-based knowledge of core individual therapies to teach others Comments: Not Yet Assessable Not Yet Completed Level 1 Version 2 Psychiatry Milestones, ACGME Report Worksheet 2020 Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME) All rights reserved except the copyright owners grant third parties the right to use the Psychi atry Milestones onanon-exclusive basis for educational purposes. 11 Systems -Based Practice 1: Patient Safety and Quality Improvement A: Analyzes patient safety events B: Appropriately discloses patient safety events C: Participates in quality improvement Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Level 4 Level 5 Demonstrates knowledge of common patient safety events Demonstrates knowledge of how to report patient safety events Demonstrates knowledge of basic quality improvement methodologies and metrics Identifies system factors that lead to patient safety events Reports patient safety events through institutional reporting systems (simulated or actual) Describes local quality improvement initiatives (e.g., reduced restraint rates, falls risk, suicide rates) Participates in analysis of patient safety events (simulated or actual) Participates in disclosure of patient safety events to patients and families (simulated or actual) Participates in local quality improvement initiatives Conducts analysis of patient safety events and offers error prevention strategies (simulated or actual) Discloses patient safety events to patients and families (simulated or actual) Demonstrates the skills required to identify, develop, implement, and analyzeaquality improvement project Actively engages teams and processes to improve systems to prevent patient safety events Role models or mentors others in the disclosure of patient safety events Creates, implements, and assesses quality improvement initiatives at the institutional or community level Comments: Not Yet Completed Level 1 Version 2 Psychiatry Milestones, ACGME Report Worksheet 2020 Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME) All rights reserved except the copyright owners grant third parties the right to use the Psychi atry Milestones onanon-exclusive basis for educational purposes. 12 Systems -Based Practice 2: System Navigation for Patient -Centered Care A: Coordinates patient care B: Safely transitions care C: Population and community health needs Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Level 4 Level 5 Demonstrates knowledge of care coordination Identifies key elements for safe and effective transitions of care and hand-offs Demonstrates knowledge of population and community health needs and disparities Coordinates care of patients in routine clinical situations effectively using the roles of the interprofessional teams Performs safe and effective transitions of care/hand-offs in routine clinical situations Identifies specific population and community health needs and inequities for their local population Coordinates care of patients in complex clinical situations effectively using the roles of their interprofessional teams Performs safe and effective transitions of care/hand-offs in complex clinical situations Uses local resources effectively to meet the needs ofapatient population and community Role models effective coordination of patient-centered care among different disciplines and specialties Role models and serves asapatient advocate for safe and effective transitions of care/hand-offs within and across health care delivery systems including outpatient settings Participates in changing and adapting practice to provide for the needs of specific populations Analyzes the process of care coordination and leads in the design and implementation of improvements Improves quality of transitions of care within and across health care delivery systems to optimize patient outcomes Leads innovations and advocates for populations and communities with health care inequities Comments: Not Yet Completed Level 1 Version 2 Psychiatry Milestones, ACGME Report Worksheet 2020 Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME) All rights reserved except the copyright owners grant third parties the right to use the Psychi atry Milestones onanon-exclusive basis for educational purposes. 13 Systems -Based Practice 3: Physician Role in Health Care Systems A: Understanding and working within the health care system B: Health care financing and advocacy C: Transition to practice Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Level 4 Level 5 Identifies key components of the complex health care system Describes practice models and basic mental health payment systems Identifies basic knowledge domains for effective transition to residency Describes how components ofacomplex health care system are interrelated, and how this impacts patient care Identifies barriers to care in different health care systems Demonstrates use of information technology and documentation required for medical practice Discusses how individual practice affects the broader system Engages with patients in shared decision making and advocates for appropriate care and parity Describes core administrative knowledge needed for transition to practice Manages various components of the complex health care system to provide high-value, efficient, and effective patient care and transition of care Advocates for patient care needs including mobilizing community resources Analyzes individual practice patterns and professional requirements in preparation for practice Advocates for or leads systems change that enhances high-value, efficient, and effective patient care and transition of care Participates in advocacy activities for access to care in mental health and reimbursement Educates others to prepare them for transition to practice Comments: Not Yet Completed Level 1 Version 2 Psychiatry Milestones, ACGME Report Worksheet 2020 Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME) All rights reserved except the copyright owners grant third parties the right to use the Psychi atry Milestones onanon-exclusive basis for educational purposes. 14 Practice-Based Learning and Improvement 1: Evidence-Based and Informed Practice Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Level 4 Level 5 Demonstrates how to access and summarize available evidence for routine conditions Articulates cl inical questions and initiates literature searches to provide evidence-based care Locates and applies the best available evidence to the care of patients applyingahierarchy of evidence Critically appraises and applies evidence even in the face of uncertainty and conflicting evidence to guide care, tailored to the individual patient Coaches others to critically appraise and apply evidence for complex patients; and/or participates in the development of guidelines Comments: Not Yet Completed Level 1 Version 2 Psychiatry Milestones, ACGME Report Worksheet 2020 Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME) All rights reserved except the copyright owners grant third parties the right to use the Psychi atry Milestones onanon-exclusive basis for educational purposes. 15 Practice-Based Learning and Improvement 2: Reflective Practice and Commitment to Personal Growth Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Level 4 Level 5 Accepts responsibility for personal and professional development by establishing goals Identifies the factors which contribute to gap(s) between one’s expected and actual performance Actively seeks opportunities to improve Demonstrates openness to performance data (feedback and other input) in order to inform goals Analyzes and reflects on the factors which contribute to gap(s) between one’s expected and actual performance Designs and implementsalearning plan, with prompting Seeks performance data episodically, with openness and humility Analyzes, reflects on, and institutes behavioral change(s) to narrow the gap(s) between one’s expected and actual performance Independently creates and implementsalearning plan Intentionally seeks performance data consistently with openness and humility Challenges one’s own assumptions and considers alternatives in narrowing the gap(s) between their expected and actual performance Uses performance data to measure the effectiveness of the learning plan and when necessary, improves it Role models consistently seeking performance data with openness and humility Coaches others on reflective practice Facilitates the design and implementation of learning plans for others Comments: Not Yet Completed Level 1 Version 2 Psychiatry Milestones, ACGME Report Worksheet 2020 Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME) All rights reserved except the copyright owners grant third parties the right to use the Psychi atry Milestones onanon-exclusive basis for educational purposes. 16 Professionalism 1: Professional Behavior and Ethical Principles Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Level 4 Level 5 Identifies and describes core professional behavior Recognizes that one’s behavior in professional settings affects others Demonstrates knowledge of core ethical principles Demonstrates professional behavior in routine situations Takes responsibility for own professionalism lapses and responds appropriately Analyzes straightforward situations using ethical principles Demonstrates professional behavior in complex or stressful situations Describes when and how to appropriately report professionalism lapses in others, including strategies for addressing common barriers to reporting Analyzes complex situations using ethical principles and recognizes when help is needed Recognizes situations that may trigger professionalism lapses and intervenes to prevent lapses in self and others Responds appropriately to professionalism lapses of colleagues Recognizes and uses appropriate resources for managing and resolving ethical dilemmas as needed. (e.g., ethics consultations, literature review, risk management/legal consultation) Role models professional behavior and ethical principles Identifies and seeks to address system-level factors that induce or exacerbate ethical problems or impede their resolution Comments: Not Yet Completed Level 1 Version 2 Psychiatry Milestones, ACGME Report Worksheet 2020 Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME) All rights reserved except the copyright owners grant third parties the right to use the Psychi atry Milestones onanon-exclusive basis for educational purposes. 17 Professionalism 2: Accountability/Conscientiousness Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Level 4 Level 5 Takes responsibility to complete tasks and responsibilities, identifies potential contributing factors for lapses, and describes strategies for ensuring timely task completion in the future Introduces self as patient’s resident physician Performs tasks and responsibilities inatimely manner with appropriate attention to detail in routine situations Accepts the role of the patient’s physician and takes responsibility (under supervision) for ensuring that the patient receives the best possible care Performs tasks and responsibilities inatimely manner with appropriate attention to detail in complex or stressful situations Is recognized by self, patient, patient’s family, and medical staff members as the patient’s primary psychiatric provider Recognizes when others are unable to complete tasks and responsibilities inatimely manner and assists in problem solving Displays increasing autonomy and leadership in taking responsibility for ensuring the patients receive the best possible care Takes ownership of system outcomes Serves asarole model in demonstrating responsibility for ensuring that patients receive the best possible care Comments: Not Yet Completed Level 1 Version 2 Psychiatry Milestones, ACGME Report Worksheet 2020 Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME) All rights reserved except the copyright owners grant third parties the right to use the Psychi atry Milestones onanon-exclusive basis for educational purposes. 18 Professionalism 3: Well-Being Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Level 4 Level 5 Recognizes the importance of addressing personal and professional well-being Lists available resources for personal and professional well-being Describes institutional resources designed to promote well-being With assistance, proposesaplan to promote personal and professional well-being Recognizes which institutional factors affect well-being Independently developsaplan to promote personal and professional well-being Describes institutional factors that positively and/or negatively affect well-being Creates institutional level interventions that promote colleagues’ well-being Describes institutional programs designed to examine systemic contributors to burnout Comments: This subcompetency is not intended to evaluatearesident’s well-being. Rather, the intent is to ensure that each resident has the fundamental knowledge of factors that affect well-being, the mechanisms by which those factors affect well-being, and available resources and tools to improve well -being. Not Yet Completed Level 1 Version 2 Psychiatry Milestones, ACGME Report Worksheet 2020 Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME) All rights reserved except the copyright owners grant third parties the right to use the Psychi atry Milestones onanon-exclusive basis for educational purposes. 19 Interpersonal and Communication Skills 1: Patient - and Family-Centered Communication Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Level 4 Level 5 Uses language and nonverbal communication to demonstrate empathic curiosity, respect, and to establish rapport Identifies common barriers to effective communication; accurately communicates own role within the health care system Recognizes communication strategies may need to be adjusted based on clinical context Establishesatherapeutic relationship in straightforward encounters using active listening and clear language Identifies complex barriers to effective communication Organizes and initiates communication with patient/family by introducing stakeholders, setting the agenda, clarifying expectations, and verifying understanding of the clinical situation Establishesatherapeutic relationship in challenging patient encounters; uses nonverbal communication skills effectively When prompted, reflects on personal biases that may contribute to communication barriers With guidance, sensitively and compassionately delivers medical information, elicits patient/family values, goals and preferences; acknowledges uncertainty and conflict Effectively establishes and sustains therapeutic relationships, with attention to patient/family concerns and context, regardless of complexity Independently recognizes personal biases and attempts to proactively minimize their contribution to communication barriers Independently, uses shared decision making to align patient/family values, goals, and preferences with treatment options to makeapersonalized care plan Mentors others in situational awareness and critical self-reflection to consistently develop positive therapeutic relationships Role models self-awareness practice while identifying and teachingacontextual approach to minimize communication barriers Role models shared decision making in patient/family communication including those withahigh degree of uncertainty/conflict Comments: Not Yet Completed Level 1 Version 2 Psychiatry Milestones, ACGME Report Worksheet 2020 Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME) All rights reserved except the copyright owners grant third parties the right to use the Psychi atry Milestones onanon-exclusive basis for educational purposes. 20 Interpersonal and Communication Skills 2: Interprofessional and Team Communication Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Level 4 Level 5 Uses language that values all members of the health care team Recognizes the need for ongoing feedback with the health care team Communicates information effectively with all health care team members Solicits feedback on performance asamember of the health care team Uses active listening to adapt communication style to fit team needs Communicates concerns and provides feedback to peers and learners Coordinates recommendations from different members of the health care team to optimize patient care Respectfully communicates feedback and constructive criticism to superiors Role models flexible communication strategies that value input from all health care team members, resolving conflict when needed Facilitates regular health care team-based feedback in complex situations Comments: Not Yet Completed Level 1 Version 2 Psychiatry Milestones, ACGME Report Worksheet 2020 Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME) All rights reserved except the copyright owners grant third parties the right to use the Psychi atry Milestones onanon-exclusive basis for educational purposes. 21 Interpersonal and Communication Skills 3: Communication within Health Care Systems Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Level 4 Level 5 Accurately records information in the patient record Safeguards patient personal health information Communicates about administrative issues through appropriate channels, as required by institutional policy Demonstrates organized diagnostic and therapeutic reasoning through notes in the patient record Uses documentation shortcuts accurately and appropriately to enhance efficiency of communication Respectfully communicates concerns about the system Concisely reports diagnostic and therapeutic reasoning in the patient record Appropriately selects forms of communication based on context Uses appropriate channels to offer clear and constructive suggestions to improve the system Communicates clearly and concisely, in an organized written form, including anticipatory guidance Achieves written or verbal communication that serves as an example for others to follow Initiates difficult conversations with appropriate stakeholders to improve the system Contributes to departmental or organizational initiatives to improve communication systems Facilitates dialogue regarding systems issues among larger community stakeholders Comments: Not Yet Completed Level 1 